Cape Town -EDITOR-in-chief at GQ Magazine SA Molife Kumona will present a discussion on grooming and wellness for men, on Facebook live, on the Weekend Argus Facebook page. He hopes to share some golden nuggets of advice for  men. “We need to have a conversation about things that matter now. I want to share with the audience, and I hope that they can learn from me as much as I can learn from them,” said Kumona. Kumona started paying his dues in publishing as a freelance writer and has since garnered many titles under his belt. Some of his previous roles include head of digital and online editor for GQ, Glamour, House & Garden, and a year as an online editor for Drum magazine. Throughout his career, Kumona has gained meaningful insight into understanding consumption trends, growing audiences, and creating visual direction. Kumona said his work inspired him. “I love the fact that I am part of shaping the culture and lifestyle with the work that I do. I get to introduce people to new trends, talents and creatives, and I get to meet amazing individuals along the way,” he said. The GQ editor-in-chief understands that balance in life and self-care are essential. He said: “When you do what you love, it does not always feel like work, but you need to be able to balance your personal and work life well.” Kumona believed that taking care of your physical well-being was important, especially in the pandemic. “It has become a habit to neglect ourselves while working from home. How you take care of yourself is important, and it matters,” he said. He added: “The dialogue regarding mental health is important because the pandemic hit us in a way we never expected. As men, we need to constantly engage in how events in life have affected us. It is necessary to gain insight, so that we can change our perspective on the matter.” Kumona’s approach to remaining positive was to remain optimistic and deal with things in the moment, so that he does not become overwhelmed. Those who tune into the Facebook live can expect tips on fitness, health and well-being. Join our Facebook Live on Thursday, June 17, at 7pm, on the Weekend Argus Facebook page.