Local veterinary clinic and animal rescue organisation TEARS is appealing for help to feed hungry pets. The animal rescue group is battling to cope with the daunting number of animals that are starving, homeless and suffering from hypothermia. Hypothermia occurs when the animal loses heat in its body faster than it can produce it, and can result in a dangerously low body temperature and inevitably, death. A total of nearly 1 050 animals are rescued and treated at the shelter each month. At present, 60% of admissions to the TEARS kennel and cattery are a direct result of pet owners no longer being able to afford to feed their pets. In comparison, this was less than 40% two years ago. TEARS Operations Manager Mandy Store said  winter has always been a challenging time for vulnerable animals in low-income areas. “The domino effect of Covid-19 and the loss of income for so many pet owners have made a bad situation even worse,” she said. She added: “Despite giving kennels, blankets, and additional pet food, the TEARS Veterinary Hospital continues to see pet deaths due to hypothermia, exposure to the elements, and severe malnutrition.” The TEARS kennel and cattery are operating at capacity and are using a mobile clinic to rescue emaciated and homeless animals. Just recently, the team saved two newborn puppies who survived a rainstorm in Ocean View. The exposure to the harmful conditions caused the death of three out of the litter of five. The animal and rescue shelter is appealing to the public to support their  Give Warmth  campaign by donating R150. With this, they can purchase one bag of pet food and feed one hungry community pet for a month. TEARS head of marketing and fundraising, Lara Van Rensburg said that every contribution helps. She said: “This campaign not only raises awareness for the harsh realities faced by homeless animals but by giving to the campaign, supporters can create a tangible impact by changing the life of an animal in need.” To sponsor a bag of pet food through the Give Warmth campaign, see https://tears.org.za/give-warmth/  Weekend Argus