Siyabonga Mkhwanazi The ANC in the Western Cape will tomorrow lay criminal charges against the City’s Mayco Member for Safety JP Smith for allegedly lying about his qualifications. But Smith has vehemently denied the allegations against him. The saga began a few weeks ago when it emerged that the DA member of the mayoral committee had apparently lied about his qualifications. ANC leader in the provincial legislature Cameron Dugmore said he and Xolani Sotashe, who leads the party in the council, will approach the police to probe Smith for breaching the National Qualifications Framework Act. A law was passed by Parliament a few years ago, and it provides for punishment against those who fake their qualifications. Dugmore said Smith needed to face the law for having lied about his qualifications. “The Commercial Crimes Unit is investigating and has appointed an investigating officer. Myself and Xolani Sotashe are going to lay the charges in terms of the National Qualifications Framework Act,” said Dugmore. Smith yesterday denied the allegations against him, saying he stands by the statement he issued earlier. “They did this last week. Dugmore is wasting the time of the police. This matter has been adequately explained, and he is desperate to extend the lifespan of the media interest. My previous statement stands. There was no misrepresentation of the qualifications by me. There was a mistake by support staff which they have placed on record. Dugmore is really just trying to distract from the fiasco that the ANC and its corruption scandals have become,” said Smith. The DA has been embroiled in the qualifications scandals in the last few months after it first emerged that former provincial leader and ex-MEC for Transport Bonginkosi Madikizela had lied about his qualifications and subsequently resigned. Dugmore said they would not let the matter of Smith be swept under the carpet and want the law enforcement agencies to get to the bottom of it. They will approach the police tomorrow and formally lay charges against him. DA chief whip Natasha Mazzone was also caught in another spat with the EFF about her qualifications. Meanwhile, yesterday former DA MP Phumizle van Damme  terminated her DA membership in a tweet.   