Tech NPO Silicon Cape and the US Embassy to host virtual hackathon and bootcamp series this month COULD the next Bill Gates who has the tech savvy to drive township economies be right on our shores? Tech NPO Silicon Cape and the United States Embassy in South Africa sure hope so. The organisations will host a virtual hackathon, a bootcamp series, and a competition later this month. The event aims to find digital solutions that will assist in accelerating inclusive economic growth for local businesses in the township economy. Covid-19 has had a dramatic impact on township economies as local businesses lost business. The virtual hackathon will take place over the weekend of June 19 and June 20. Emerging software developers, IT professionals, students and academics are invited to partake in finding a digital solution to these problem. Silicon Cape co-chairperson Dr Sumarie Roodt said hackathons like these could help bring solutions that could advocate for real change. She said: “We want to instil hope and would like to upskill all participants with new mental models and frameworks that they could apply to other areas of their working or personal lives. We want to build stronger communities and build a bridge between South Africa and the US.” The virtual hackathon forms part of the series Hackathons for South Africa: Digital Solutions for Real World Challenges. In the week following the hackathon, a virtual bootcamp series will be hosted from June 21 to 25. At the series, experts will be sharing advice on how to bring township tech solutions to life. The bootcamp series will be held on the US consulate Cape Town’s Facebook page between 1pm and 2pm each day. Some of the topics that will be covered include rapid prototyping, how to pitch your winning idea and commercialising and monetising your prototype, among others. Will Stevens, acting consul general at the US consulate in Cape Town, said the hackathon aimed to connect local entrepreneurs in township economies with the skills they need to drive growth, innovation and digital competitiveness. He added: “As South Africa’s top economic partner, the United States is proud to support the incredible economic innovation that is driving South Africa’s post-Covid recovery." The finale will take place online on Sunday, June 27, where all teams will pitch their ideas to the judges and the best solution will win  R25 000. The runners up will receive R15 000 and R5 000. To sign up, or for more information see https://www.buildcommunityhackathons.co.za