 Western Cape MEC for Education Debbie Schafer has revealed that  nine teachers still found guilty of sexual harassment are still employed by the department. Schafer was responding to oral questions during a sitting of the Western Cape Legislature on Thursday afternoon. ANC MPL Khalid Sayed put forward the questions on whether the department had teachers in its employ who had been found guilty of sexual harassment. In April the national department of education gazetted terms and conditions of employment of teachers who had been found guilty of several offences which range from a year-long ban for transgressions such as financial mismanagement or showing up drunk at school  to an indefinite suspension for those found guilty of serious misconduct which includes sexual harassment of pupils. “Yes there are nine teachers who have been found guilty of improper conduct - sexual harassment after a formal disciplinary hearing from 2014 to date who are still currently employed by the department,” she said. “Sanctions imposed by independent presiding officers in these cases included final written warning, final written warning with a fine, final written warning with a fine, suspension and counselling and final written warning with a fine and suspension without remuneration. “All cases resulted in final written warnings and in some cases additional penalties.The transgressions varied from making inappropriate comments to pulling on a learner’s leg.” Schafer said all disciplinary cases had been conducted by independent presiding officers appointed by the department who impose sanctions on behalf of the employer after a guilty finding. The African Christian Democratic Party’s Ferlon Christian also asked Schafer what the process was for complainants who wanted to appeal sanctions against teachers they deemed too lenient. “There is a right of appeal, not the individual complainant can appeal but the department can appeal to me if they feel that the sanction is not strict enough or the person (found guilty) can appeal if they are of the view that it is too strict,” she added. 