Wellington-based food manufacturer Outside The Bowl Africa aims to set the world record for the most potjiekos pots cooked by one person. Founder of the local organisation Mark Maingard will attempt to cook 100 potjiekos pots in October. His goal is to feed 10 000 people from impoverished areas on the day. “Although my team will assist me in setting up the 100 pots and making the fires, I am hoping to set a world record by cooking the potjiekos all by myself,” he said. Outside The Bowl Africa is a non-profit company with a mission to eliminate malnourishment by creating food resources to serve nutritious meals to those who need it most. Maingard decided to embark on the world record attempt to raise awareness about the reality of world hunger. “Hunger is a pandemic on its own. In some communities, children go to sleep without a meal, and many of them are dying because of this.” He added: “It is heartbreaking to see children mixing newspaper and water to form a meal because they have nothing else.” In April, Outside The Bowl Africa launched its campaign to combat childhood hunger. With this initiative, the non-profit company aims to provide nutritious meals every day that can aid in eradicating hunger. Maingard said: “I know we cannot eradicate world hunger on our own, but at least we can contribute towards ending it.” By 2025, Outside The Bowl Africa plans to provide 500 000 meals per day and wants to play its part in eradicating world hunger by 2030. On the day of the event, the non-profit company wants to raise R1 million to feed 1 million children a Vita Kidz instant energy meal. The R1m will come from companies that will be able to purchase a pot at R10 000. Each pot provides 100 meals and comes with 10 000 Vita Kidz meals. Maingard said: “One portion of Vita Kidz provides a child with up to 80% of the daily nutrition they need to survive and thrive.” Maingard appeals to any business or individual to get involved in this world record attempt by donating funds. “With this Potjiekos initiative I would like to show organisations, companies and individuals that we can do this if we stand together and feed 10 000 people with a warm plate of food in one day,” he said. He added: “Now, more than ever, we need to stand together, I believe there's no better way to thank the communities for what they do and lift the spirits of those in need with a warm pot of food, especially good food prepared around a fire.” The event will take place on Saturday, October 2, at Paarl Mall. For information see their Facebook page:  https://www.facebook.com/outsidethebowlafrica.org