House is a six-bedroom country retreat that also offers a two-bedroom detached cottage DARREN Wordon, originally from Johannesburg, hit the jackpot in winning a R49 million (£2.5 m) mansion in Cotswolds, UK. The IT consultant and father of two entered a charity prize draw with a ticket that only cost him £25. Cotswold is home to some of England’s more popular celebrities including the Beckhams, Amanda Holden and Jeremy Clarkson. Set in the countryside the house covers 2.3 acres of land and is a sought after property. Valued at just over R49 million (£2.5 million), the newly built home has been fitted with amenities and appliances that will make life easier for the Wordon family. The house is a six-bedroom country retreat that also offers a two-bedroom detached cottage. The Wordon family, who currently reside in a 3-bedroom home in Bath, relocated to the UK from Johannesburg five years ago. The couple has been married for 26 years and has two children, Maddison, 20 and Matthew, 17. The prize was the result of an annual fundraising campaign hosted by charity support company Omaze, in aid of the Prince’s Trust charity. Prince’s Trust looks at challenges that young people face in the job market and provides them with training and education opportunities to combat them. Wordon entered the competition after seeing the draw on television. The winning ticket cost him R491 (£25) which equated to 40 entries into the draw. In a statement from the charity, Wordon said: “I saw the advert on TV. I was inspired to enter the draw after hearing about the incredible work the Prince’s Trust does for young people.” He added: “Having two children myself, ensuring young people have the support and opportunities to thrive means a lot to me.” Darren said his family have not yet decided whether or not they want to live in the house or sell it. “It is a brilliant dilemma to have. Either way, it is a life-changing win." Senior vice president from Omaze, James Oakes, said the raffle was a win-win for charities and donors. “By offering incredible prizes like this dream Cotswolds home, we are giving people the chance to win, while also introducing charities to donors they would not have access to otherwise.” He added: “We are thrilled that Darren and his family got to help out a charity that means a lot to them, and just as delighted that this campaign helped to raise £500 000 for the Prince’s Trust in the process." 