This Father’s Day is a little more special for father and son Christopher and Curtis Blows who both survived Covid-19. Christopher Blows, 63, is a supervisor from Dennemere. He said he was grateful to have had his family by his side throughout his recovery. “I feared going to the hospital but having had my family around me while I recovered at home helped me so much. It reminded me how important it is to appreciate your family and be there for them at all times,” he said. His son, Curtis, 38, said his experience with the virus was a lot like having the flu, aside from having had occasional difficulty breathing. “My dad and I were out for two weeks. Normally I recover from being sick over two to three days, but that was not the case. I am glad that we fought this disease,” he said. Christopher described himself as a family man and his favourite memory with “my kids are all the road trips that we took over the years, getting to spend time together.” Curtis added his memories include his late brother, Angelo. “My dad would make us carry slabs and bricks from one side of our backyard to the other. It was our weekly chore, and he’d often ask us to do it while our friends were already playing in the road. We used to joke about it a lot, but it taught us discipline.” Curtis, who has two children,  learnt patience from his dad. This Father’s Day, the Blows family is looking forward to spending time together. Father and son, Dencil and Christian Ross will also spend time together and having surviving Covid-19. Dencil, 47, is a military practitioner and reverend from Mitchell’s Plain. He described having  Covid-19 as a frightening experience because so much about this disease is unknown. “The recovery was long and tedious, and it became very frustrating to be restricted in bed with aches and pains.” His son, Christian, 10, was asymptomatic. “I got to spend a lot of quality time with my family and enjoyed being able to help care for my family. Dencil’s favourite part about being a father is getting to be a present dad that spends time with his family. “Spending time with my family reminds me that being a dad is a privilege. When we drive to school in the mornings, we get to talk about everything, laugh and create memories each day,” he said. Christian’s favourite thing about his dad is that he is always there when he needs him. “For Father’s Day this year, I want to make him lunch, give him some presents and spend some good family time together.” 