Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women in the world, and in South Africa. Through raising awareness of the disease, the stigma surrounding it can be reduced. In light of Weekend Argus’s partnership with breast cancer organisation Reach for Recovery, we spoke to a local expert about the importance of breast cancer awareness. Dr Justus Apffelstaedt is a specialist surgeon with an interest in breast, thyroid, parathyroid and soft tissue surgical oncology. Apffelstaedt is a former professor of surgery and head of surgical oncology at Stellenbosch University. Apffelstaedt has been working closely with Reach for Recovery to raise awareness and funds for their ‘Ditto Project’ since 2018. The Ditto Project provides women who have undergone breast cancer surgery with a subsidised silicone prosthesis once their scar has healed. Over the years, Appfelstaedt has played an active role in sharing proactive breast health management with people. In his time as head of the Breast Clinic at Tygerberg Hospital, Appfelstaedt dealt with a multitude of breast cancer-related surgeries. “At Tygerberg Hospital, I was responsible for the treatment of about 500 new cases of breast cancer per year. “Currently, in my private practice, I do about 200 cancer-related surgeries per year.” The doctor said  many patients face delays in the health system due to socio-economic factors. “Socially deprived people are dying from treatable and manageable diseases, like breast cancer, simply because they are either being diagnosed too late or have to wait too long for treatment. “When a woman is diagnosed with breast cancer, the system should be supportive enough for her to embark on a reasonable treatment plan, within a reasonable time,” he said. Although breast cancer cannot be prevented, Appfelstaedt said screening and regular breast examinations and ultrasounds are paramount for early detection. “Early detection of breast cancer is crucial to improve long term survival. “Practising good breast health can help women detect abnormalities in their breasts before they become life-threatening.” The breast cancer expert said although the illness was covered by medical aid, patients must check to which extent they were covered. “The extent to which it is covered differs according to individual schemes and plans,” he said. Apffelstaedt added education on breast cancer and raising awareness of it is necessary. “Through raising awareness, patients can hopefully detect the disease early enough. Early detection is key to treatment and ultimately survival,” he said. He said breast cancer awareness was an everyday event. “Just focusing on this for one month a year would not adequately educate women on breast health. Appfelstaedt’s advice to people living with breast cancer was that a breast cancer diagnosis wass not a death diagnosis. “It is possible to survive breast cancer and live a full life. “We would recommend that you speak to Reach for Recovery about this from a lifestyle support perspective,” he said. Appfelstaedt will host a Facebook Live on the Weekend Argus page on Wednesday at 11am. 