Cape Town - THE auditor-general has raised the flag on the City of Cape Town’s use of R11.7 million worth of conditional grant funding from the Department Human Settlements to fund the Wingfield refugee site. The AG’s third special report into Covid-19 expenditure by municipalities was released on Wednesday . The City of Cape Town was among four municipalities audited in the Western Cape out of the 43 in the country as it fell under the category of municipalities that received funding of more than R16 million from the conditional grants allocation in August. According to the report the municipality was one of two that spent funds allocated for Covid-19 initiatives that were not for the intended purpose. Municipalities had received guidelines from the National Treasury that stipulated how funds were to be allocated for Covid-19. “The municipality spent R11.7 million (excluding value-added tax) from the urban settlements development grant funding on a shelter for refugees at the Wingfield site even though providing services to refugees falls outside the mandate of local government,” read the report. “This is regarded as outside the scope for which the grant could be used in response to the Covid-19 pandemic, as refugees are not regarded as members of informal settlements and/or vulnerable communities. “The grant is administered by the Department of Human Settlements, while refugees are the responsibility of the Department of Home Affairs. No agreement was entered into with the Department of Home Affairs to reimburse the costs incurred by the municipality.” The report said the grant was, therefore, not spent for its intended purpose in accordance with the applicable grant framework.” In April, the Wingfield site located at a military base in Kensington along with the one in Paint City, Bellville closed down after accommodating  refugees and asylum seekers for nearly a year. The group had been protesting   outside the offices of the offices of the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (UNHCR) in 2019 demanding they be located to Canada to escape xenophobic attacks in South Africa. This story will be updated with the City of Cape Town’s comment. Weekend Argus