Cape Town  - COME July Drakenstein municipality will institute stricter guidelines to the disposal of dead animals after 30 dogs and five horse carcasses were dumped at landfill site. The municipality said infectious animal carcasses, together with other non-infectious carcasses, were disposed of at the Wellington Landfill Site last recently. The carcasses weighed around 1.5 tonnes. The municipality said the Wellington site may only accept general waste which was defined as waste that does not pose an immediate threat to health or the environment. “The Wellington Landfill Site is not allowed to accept any infectious animal carcasses, hazardous waste or medical waste,” said the municipality’s spokesperson Riana Geldenhuys. “These prohibited types of waste include veterinary waste - from research, diagnosis, treatment or prevention of diseases involving animals - and may not be disposed of together with non-infectious carcasses. “In May, Drakenstein Municipality received five horse carcasses and 30 dog carcasses with a combined weight of approximately 1.5 tonnes at its Wellington Landfill Site. Most of the carcasses were dead dogs from the SPCA and/or dogs that died on the road, and horses from the Wellington Animal Hospital,” she added. Geldenhuys said any pet owner, farmer or anyone who had an animal that died outside of a veterinary practice may still dispose of that carcases at the Wellington site but should note the following as of July 1, 2021: * Before entering the site, the person who disposes of the carcass has to complete a declaration stating  name and address of client; type of animal; cause of death; and a signature confirming that the carcass is non-infectious. * A valid, signed certificate, issued by a registered veterinary professional (with their practice number and registration number), needs to be submitted confirming that the carcass(es) is non-infectious. And if the carcass is infectious, animal owners’ options are to: *Dispose of the carcass at the Vissershok Hazardous Landfill Site in Cape Town. *Have the carcass cremated at a crematorium. *Have the carcass composted at a licensed composting facility. Weekend Argus