South Africa’s oldest breast cancer support organisation Reach for Recovery (RFR) is partnering with the Weekend Argus to raise awareness about the disease. Established in 1967, the non-profit organisation aims to provide practical and emotional support to newly diagnosed breast cancer patients and their families. The organisation has 220 volunteers who visit  patients at 137 treatment facilities across South Africa. All volunteers are breast cancer survivors that can provide necessary support. In their 2019/2020 financial year, volunteers supported 6 296 women and educated them on breast health. Chairperson of the organisation’s Cape Peninsula branch, Carla Lind, said the organisation wanted to provide patients with knowledge that enabled them to take control of their lives again. “Contact with a breast cancer survivor who has been through a similar experience can make a big difference. They will feel less alone and can discuss things with the volunteer that they might not feel comfortable sharing with a family member or a close friend,” she said. She added: “Face to face contact is important as it gives patients hope to see how well the volunteer is doing.” In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the work that the organisation does has been greatly affected, as it relies on being present in person. “We now operate via WhatsApp and email as lockdown restrictions have prohibited us from visiting patients in hospitals,” Lind said. She added: “Nobody knows how long this pandemic is going to last, but we are committed to devising plans and methods that put down the heaviness of 2020, and gain new perspectives on living a purposeful life beyond the pandemic.” Lind said: “We want to assist patients in making informed decisions and providing them with preoperative information forms a big part of this. There needs to be a raised awareness of what signs and symptoms to look for.” Some of the needs that the organisation has included volunteers, financial assistance, long term premises at a reasonable cost and data for Zoom meetings. Lind said there was room for everyone within the organisation and one does not have to be a breast cancer survivor to assist. “We need help with administration, outreach, fundraising and education too,” she said. A breast cancer survivor or  a volunteer can contact Reach for Recovery on email: nationalmanager@reach4recovery.org.za or call 079 462 3973.