 What started out as a necessity when Liesel Fysh was a young women and needed to assist her elderly grandmother, quickly turned into a hobby and now a small business. Fysh is a massage therapist and owner of Body Basics: Massage On The Move. She says her business, which requires close contact amid a pandemic, requires a bit of luck and patience. “As a teenager I was already cutting my granny’s nails because she was a big woman and especially towards the end of her life… she wasn’t able to do her toenails and somehow I was the only grandchild who was prepared to do this,” said Fysh. She moved in with her granny while she completed high school and this set the foundation for her future career. “You know some people have a phobia for other people’s feet and being that up close and personal with somebody – I realised I didn’t have an issue with this at all,” she said. But it was only when she was working in a corporate environment, years later that Fysh realised pampering people was her passion. She recalls giving her colleagues neck massages in the office and the compliments she would received. In 2001 she did a part-time massage on Saturdays. “At this point I was thinking of making this my job, I was just thinking I can get a free massage every week while I am on training, because I already had this deep love for massage for myself,” she said. Fysh started her business, Body Basics On The Move, in 2008 and decided to focus on massage therapy, facial treatments and pedicures full time. As she built the business over the years she eventually converted her garage into a tranquil space for her clients, but her main selling point was that she travelled to her clients homes to do the treatments. “I didn’t want to be a spa, I wanted to give you the treatment in the comfort of your home, leave you in your little glow and leave – you didn’t have to get into your car and you weren’t tempted to walk into a shop because you were in a mall.” But when the lockdown was announced last year it brought her business to a grinding halt. “I realised how I should have diversified my business a little more,” said Fysh. She started an online store during the lockdown so that her clients could buy their own products and do their treatments at home. “The online store is via a third party and they run it for me, so my clients can get their products straight from the supplier,” said Fysh. This, coupled with her great relationship with many clients, meant that Fysh was able to keep her brand alive. She admits that when she started doing her treatments again late last year she had to remind her clients that hygiene had always been a cornerstone of her treatments. Fysh said in many aspects she was lucky to have survived the lockdown; her business had no staff and she wasn’t renting premises anywhere. But she is now looking to expand and is going to open in a location in the southern suburbs very soon, something she is quite excited about. This will complement her existing mobile offering and it’s part of her investment into her business that she believes will build a solid foundation for the future. 