AS the rollout of Covid-19 vaccines continues concerns have been raised that staff at these facilities are refusing to get vaccinated. The issue was raised by the managers of old age home groups in the Western Cape during a briefing to the Western Cape Legislature’s Ad-Hoc Committee on Covid-19. The Old Age Home groups are all non-profit organisations (NPO’s) and the residents living at the homes under their care have been prioritised to receive the Covid-19 vaccine. Health care workers have been travelling to old age homes across the province to administer the jabs at their premises so that the elderly residents don’t need to travel anywhere. The provincial government estimated that there are more than 559 000 over 60’s in the Western Cape who eligible for the jab. NPO  Badisa told the provincial government committee that residents have been more eager than staff to get vaccinated, 875 staff have been vaccinated and 2401 residents have been vaccinated. Chief executive officer Badisa Christine Quickfall said: “55 % of staff have been vaccinated, 45 percent chose not to.” Quickfall added   the high percent of staff on wanting the jab hasn’t gone unnoticed: “It’s a big concern for me too. We are giving it another two weeks to see whether enhanced awareness will have a more positive effect. I commit myself to that because of the dangers.” Member of Parliament Derrick America: “Given the unique environment the staff operate in they expose themselves to disciplinary procedures if they are found to put residents at risk. “Care facilities should implore and encourage staff to be vaccinated and make them aware of possible consequences of their employment security should they persist and refuse to be inoculated from the virus.” No one can be forced to take the vaccination in South Africa, it must be administered on a voluntary basis. Quickfall said in January she sought legal advice on the issue as to whether staff could be compelled to get vaccinated. She told the committee: “Now that we know more and have more facts I will go back to the legal practitioners and ask them did something change...perhaps in the labour context it was tested and we have a better foot to stand on. I certainly don’t want to be dragged without any support to the CCMA.” No reasons were given as to why staff might be hesitant or refused to take the Covid-19 vaccine. Cape Peninsula Organisation for the Aged Nursing Manager, Ansibel Kirsten, said staff getting the vaccine  was an issue for them as well, but that vaccination of their residents was going well. The organisation cares for 2364 elderly and 897 of them have to date been vaccinated. 