 Hydrogen technology could be the answer to South Africa’s power crisis. At UWC, Hydrogen Systems South Africa (HySA Systems), is making breakthroughs in the industry. A new global benchmarking report said HySA Systems was leading hydrogen technology. The report was conducted by US technology and science company, RCB Hydrides. Chief executive and founder of the company, Dr Robert C. Bowman (Jr) said that HySA projects could lead to commercially viable systems in the future. Bowman said: “The status of both hydride materials and the prototype refuelling stations at HySA are well advanced and are at the forefront when compared to international efforts.” Dr Mykhaylo Lototskyy is the hydrogen storage materials and systems key technology specialist at HySA Systems. He said: “Hydrogen fuel cells have the potential to transform the country by adding value to its natural resources, improving socio-economic development, creating job opportunities and providing energy security,” Lototskyy added: “South Africa is a key player in the emerging hydrogen economy. Platinum is used as a catalyst in hydrogen fuel cells - and South Africa is home to 80% of the world’s platinum reserves.” Hydrogen has been used to refine petrol and produce fertiliser but can also be used in fuel cells that can assist in generating electricity. When Hydrogen is burned, it produces clean water and leaves behind no industrial waste or toxic gasses.  Additionally, Hydrogen fuel cell technology is reliable, efficient and environmentally friendly. Lototskyy said that it was important that South Africa improved the economic value of our mineral resources. “In addition to South Africa’s dominant position in the mining and processing of Platinum Group Metals, the country is also in the global top ten on the reserves.” He added: “Beneficiation of these mineral resources is a key driver for the development of new high tech industries for the manufacturing of metal hydride materials and environment-friendly systems realising metal hydride technologies.” Lototskyy added that hydrogen technology could be resourceful to South Africa’s crippling power crisis. He said:  “Application of this technology offers very efficient energy storage solutions on small and medium scale characterised by compactness, safety and flexibility in the system integration.” HySA Systems Director Professor Sivakumar Pasupathi said that the programme that they offered could make a significant contribution to South Africa’s sustainable economic efforts. He said: “It can prove sustainable and clean energy through the use of fuel cells for stationary, portable and transport applications.” He added: “HySA shows how South Africa can extract value from our mineral endowment through research, development and innovation - and use it to power a brighter future.” 