The Garden of Blessings feeding scheme has been run solely off donations since its inception in lockdown level 5 thanks to Twitter. Tracey Manus, a single mother from Ravensmead, started the feeding scheme with the help of her mother, Hester, a year ago. Many children in her community had to forgo the meals they used to receive at school. Despite the help of a social grant, many people struggled to feed their families. Manus started feeding 30 to 40 people per week, this number has grown to 160 people who receive a warm meal every Sunday. During the week, her mom makes sandwiches and breakfast for school children. In addition to this, they regularly collect and hand out food hampers, hygiene packs and clothing to the people of Ravensmead. She has had strong support from her more than 4000 Twitter followers and  people on the social media site she did not know. “I have made some good friends on Twitter over the years. I figured people jumped on board because of the relationship that we have, but I did not expect the overwhelming support, '' she said. She added: “Because of the help that I receive from Twitter, we can keep doing what we do. People do not know the impact that their donations have and how far a small donation goes.” Manus, who is currently running a blanket drive, said she was amazed at the power that Twitter has and how much a simple share or retweet could achieve. “After I shared the news about the blanket drive, someone donated 100 pairs of socks, another person ordered sanitiser, and we received a donation of 2000 masks. Twitter has helped me help my community,” she said. Some of the other donations that she’s grateful for are four tables, four gas cylinders, two gas burners and pots that were all donated for use on a Sunday when meals are prepared. Manus added: “A lot of thought goes into asking for assistance online. I always take a look at what the community is in immediate need of before I take it to Twitter.” Over the last three months, she managed to host two fund-raisers with the help of her Twitter followers. The two events raised a combined total of nearly R15 000 for the feeding scheme. The first event was a Fives Futbol tournament and the second was a give-away, with a two-night stay at a top Cape Town hotel. Manus said she started gardening with the hope that it would spill over into helping other households in the area, and getting them to start their gardens as well. “The idea has always been to create a community garden that ties in with feeding people on Sundays, that way we spend less money on donations.” Manus said she had seen the difference just one meal makes for the children in her community. “I know that these children are not neglected, but their parents do not have the means to provide for them. I am happy to assist where I can, it keeps me going.” To donate to Garden of Blessings, email garden4blessings@gmail.com  