Cape Town - A father of four who had a passion for soccer has become the latest cop to be killed in Cape Town in a road rage incident, just three weeks after two other policemen were murdered. Police have confirmed detectives are working around the clock to secure an arrest. The Directorate for Priority Crimes, previously the Hawks, have since been assigned to the case. Constable Khangelani Magqabini, 40, stationed at Mowbray Police Station was off-duty on Friday when he was killed. He had been driving with a relative in his car in Delft-South when he became involved in an argument with another driver who was driving recklessly. Magqabini drove to his home in Nielsen Street, Delft-South. He went inside to fetch his firearm and left his relative in the car. He did not realise that the driver in the other vehicle had followed him. When he returned to his car, the driver opened fire and fled the scene. Maqgabini was rushed to Mitchells Plain Melomed Hospital, where he died in casualty. He had been shot twice in the head. The passenger in Maqgabini’s car escaped unharmed. Magqabini’s family tried to console each at his home yesterday while the Hawks carried out their investigation. Magqabini, was a dad of four, his youngest a 12-year-old daughter. He also had three siblings. He was in the police force for 11 years and was an avid soccer player said his uncle, Ncedisani Dindili. He was an Ajax fan and met soccer legends like Benni McCarthy and Thabo Mngomeni, who he had photographs taken with. “He was a huge Ajax fan and played soccer for his work’s team,” said Dindili. “We are devastated, we do not have the words. He was someone who was so full of life, he was always laughing and smiling.” Dindili said the family was unsure of what had transpired on Friday and were working closely with police. “I still cannot believe this,” said Dindili. “I was the one who had to call the family after the news broke. I had to inform the family in the Eastern Cape. “He was a loving father, who loved being a police officer. We are still trying to find out what exactly happened and are working with the police, this is so bad.” His sister Nisange Magqabini said he had loved soccer so much, he had his name printed on his soccer t-shirts. Showing images on his Facebook account, she showed her brother pictured with Thabo Mngomeni. “He will be buried in the Eastern Cape.” Meanwhile, Charles George, the Delft Policing Forum spokesperson, condemned the shooting and said the police were close to making an arrest. “We condemn the shooting of our law enforcement cluster,” he said. “We have been in communication with our station commander, they are hoping to make arrests soon. Killing of police officers shows they are not being respected in our communities and have become targets. He also extended  condolences to the family of the police officer. Police spokesperson captain FC van Wyk said the case has since been handed over to the Hawks. Last month, Sergeant Mnakwazi Mdoko and Constable Mninawa Breakfast  were driving through Bloekombos in Kraaifontein when they were ambushed by gunmen who opened fire on them and took their service pistols. Two suspects have since appeared in court for the murders. An intelligence-led investigation led to the arrests after nine men were apprehended for being in possession of unlicensed firearms in areas such Khayelitsha. Two of the firearms were identified as that of the slain Kraaifontein police officers. Police Minister, Bheki Cele, called for the harshest punishment for perpetrators convicted of police killings. During a speech after the killings, Cele said: “While it is a dark time for us in the police right now, we will not be deterred by these cowardly acts. “Let me remind police officers that when they go out there to enforce law and order, the law is on your side to respond decisively when confronted by criminals and use deadly force to defend yourself.” Weekend Argus