Cape Town - A video of an alleged rape involving pupils from Bishops Diocesan College may be nothing more than an insensitive prank. This came to light after the school launched an investigation into the incident. The school said in a statement that they were aware of the video which involved two 15-year-old boys and was taking immediate steps to determine what transpired, but that there was information to suggest the allegations being made on social media were incorrect. In the video, the victim is screaming while another boy can be heard laughing while filming. “Where the conduct of our learners is inappropriate or amounts to a serious charge of misconduct the school will not hesitate to act immediately,” said Bishops in a statement released to Weekend Argus. The school cautioned that the investigation was ongoing and the alleged rape as yet unproven. “We therefore urge all involved to treat social media claims with caution and sensitivity until the truth and accuracy of the incident are determined.” The school said the boys and their parents had been informed and it would be inappropriate to comment further as the matter involved children. Executive director of the Independent Schools’ Association of Southern Africa, Lebogang Montjane, said they had spoken to the school about the incident. He said after preliminary investigations, it was found that no rape had taken place. “No rape happened. The rape was simulated, it was two boys mocking around, children will be children,” he said. Montjane said rape was not a laughing matter and it should be taken seriously, and that people should stop circulating such videos - whether real or simulated - on social media. He pointed out that the people circulating such videos were in fact violating the law. Montjane said their member schools did a lot of teaching on social media and how rape was unacceptable. He said in some instances where such allegations were true, it was because lessons taught were not understood. Montjane said every time such incidents occurred one said they hoped it was not their school but it could happen to any school. Gender activist Lisa Vetten said making and circulating such videos was child pornography and it was a sexual offence. “It is a crime at a different level because who had circulated the video and why, and why would you want to make a video of you raping or being raped?” She said everyone who shared the video had committed a crime Vetten said this all pointed to the way society looked at rape, because now that it was two boys it was not a big thing, they were just playing, but if it was a girl being raped society would be up in arms. She said if children could play a game like this then something was not right with society. “This needs to be investigated further, we need to understand why they thought this was a game,” she said. She added schools should teach learners about rape and how to use social media responsibly. It was not the first time the school had been involved in a scandal similar to this one. Three years ago, the school was rocked by allegations of sexual misconduct by former teacher Fiona Viotti with five boys from 2013 to 2019. The South African Council of Educators closed the probe against Viotti last year citing a lack of co-operation from witnesses. Weekend Argus