While the doctors are determining whether they can remove a bullet lodged inside the eye of a four-year-old girl who had been shot by gangsters, police have managed to arrest one of the suspected gunmen. The alleged perpetrator, a 20-year-old man, is expected to make an appearance at the Athlone Magistrate’s Court tomorrow. Police are now hunting for the firearm linked to the shooting in Hanover Park. Yesterday, the family told Weekend Argus the child had undergone her first operation at Red Cross Children’s Hospital on Saturday morning to relieve the swelling on her right eye and for her sight to be stabilised. The child’s left eye has since been left damaged beyond repair and has resulted in the loss of sight and use of the eye. Doctors are performing various tests such as a CT Scan to determine where the bullet is  lodged in her left eye before they are able to remove it. The child, who cannot be identified as she is a victim of a violent crime, had been playing in the park just outside her home in Algoa Court, Hanover Park on Thursday,  at 5.30pm  when gunshots were fired. The area had been filled with children playing soccer and games and everyone ran to escape the hail of bullets. The four-year-old had been shot in her left eye while four other people, aged 15, 29, 26 and 35 were also wounded. The little girl’s family ran out of their home to bring her to safety  and she had been rescued when a young neighbour managed to carry her to safety. Members from the City’s Metro police, who had already been in the area, rushed the child to hospital along with her grandmother, and the child’s mother. The gunfire is believed to have been sparked due to infighting in the Americans gang who have a strong-hold in the area. The girl’s aunt said she had just returned home from work when she fetched the child and her own child from aftercare and that the girl’s mother had also arrived home from work. The girl was playing in the park before bath time when tragedy struck. “The child’s mother and I were speaking about the shopping  and I had bought her a chocolate,” said the aunt. “We are twin sisters and are very close. We just heard gunshots and we both shouted out her name as she was playing in the park just outside our door. “The mother rushed out and I ran to the window to see where she was. A neighbour’s child had managed to pick her up and I saw blood on her face.” The girl’s grandmother said she had always been concerned about her grandchildren playing in the park. She had run outside to fetch the child and didn't think of her own life. “I was just at the gate and I turned around and I saw my one daughter looking through the window and I just ran to get her as the shots went off. “When I saw her, I saw the blood. “I grabbed her from the child who had managed to pick her up and ran with her to find someone with a car and saw a Metro police van which had been in the area and they rushed her to hospital. “She told her mother she wanted to go home when they got to hospital. I always said I do not want my grandchildren playing in the park.” The aunt said doctors were carrying out tests to determine when and how to perform the second operation: “They did the first operation to take away the swelling on the right eye and to help with her sight and they are doing scans now to see where the bullet is, she has lost her left eye now.” Various churches together with Graze Music Academy held a prayer service and an awareness programme and dished out food to the community yesterday after the shooting. Police spokesperson Colonel Andre Traut said a suspect had been arrested: “ The motive for the incident is yet to be established. However, it is suspected that the incident is linked to the ongoing gang violence in the area. The investigation is still underway and the weapon used by the suspect is still being sought. “Once charged, the suspect is scheduled to make a court appearance in Athlone to face the charges against him.” 