The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) has confirmed alleged 28-gang boss Ralph Stanfield heads to trial in August after police found cars believed to be stolen at his petrol station in Bishop Lavis three years ago. NPA spokesperson Eric Ntabazalila said Stanfield will appear at the Cape Town Regional Court in August. “It has now been postponed to 2 to 6 August 2021 for plea and trial at the Cape Town Regional Court.” Stanfield was granted R50 000 bail in October 2018 at the Bishop Lavis Magistrate’s Court. This was after Stanfield was arrested at his garage in Bishop Lavis where a fleet of cars that had been reported stolen were found. This included a brand-new Ford Ranger. Stanfield had been called to the scene, and when he arrived there, police arrested him including 16 other men. Shortly after the co-accused were taken to the police station, they were released while Stanfield remained in custody until he was granted bail. Stanfield recently made headlines when his cousin, Simon Stanfield together with Jeffrey Pitolo, Keith September, Anzio Arnolds, Adiel Paul, Luke Pretorius, Kevin Kiddo, John Fernandez, Mogamat Stellenboom and Jonathan Petersen, were charged with two counts of attempted robbery and malicious damage to property. The group were arrested after a video circulated on social media, showing about 40 men entering the Toyota dealership and smashing cars windows. Ntabazalia said the charges had been provisionally withdrawn against the group last week in order to pursue further investigations before presenting its case before court. Stanfield is also currently at trial at the Khayelitsha Regional Court along with his wife,  Nicole Johnson, three former police officers who are facing more than 100 charges relating to firearms. He was granted R100 000 bail. Stanfield survived an attempt on his life in July 2017 after he was shot and wounded while driving his white Audi R8. He had been wearing his bullet-proof vest at the time and managed to drive himself to Morningside Medi-Clinic in Sandton. 