THE arts and entertainment industry was hard hit by the pandemic and artists have had to think out of the box to keep the music, dance and comedy going. Whaden Johannes is a singer, songwriter and entertainer from Mamre and when the lockdown was first announced a year ago, he took the bold step to start his own business, Klong Van Die Mambaks (Kid from Mamre). It wasn’t easy becoming a business owner, especially when Johannes knew the business was going to be closely linked to his personal brand. But he is an all-rounder in the entertainment industry, a radio presenter, actor, singer, songwriter and scriptwriter so he was not scared of a challenge. When the lockdown was announced, Johannes said he hit the road and left Cape Town: “I went to Ladismith. I remember driving down with my friend and we took the scenic route and I recall saying to him if this has to continue for a year, I think I will be emotionally unstable and I think I will lose it. “At the time I was very emotional about a lot of things in my life because my career had just taken flight, and if I have to rest for a year or not perform I am going to lose a lot of momentum.” The anxiety about the uncertainty of the future increased while he was in the Karoo town but it was also then that Johannes had the bright idea to start a business. He said: “I remember sitting there and thinking, ’now the time is right to do this’.” Johannes recalled how in June 2020 he took the bold step: “I called a friend who works in a bank and asked him to put me in touch with a business banker and we started putting things together, the paperwork.” In August the business was registered but there was still some uncertainty: “I remember the banker telling me, don’t label the business, start a holding company... At first, it was just going to be a production company and then lockdown got extended and the restrictions were tightened with the different levels. I still believed that soon we would be able to do productions.” Johannes knew that the phrase Klong Van Die Mambaks wasn’t going to appeal to everyone, especially if one wasn’t born and raised in Mamre so he abbreviated it to KVM. He said: “The name also wasn’t gender-neutral and then I decided it must be KVM, so we don’t also only speak to the people of Mamre.” He had branded merchandise made and sold it alongside his 2019 album entitled Mamre, but this just wasn’t enough for Johannes. He knew there were serious social-ills and crimes not only in Mamre, but across the province that couldn’t be ignored. “This company is no longer just about me, it is a platform for the youth to speak up and encourage and educate others,” he said. KVM is still in its infancy but Johannes said already he has  reached young and old and to drive a positive message. “This year I am focusing on men and the power that they have to change the communities they live in. From the abuse and gender-based violence and so many other crimes, men need to speak up.” Through his social media accounts, events and motivational talks, KVM is now about the business of positive change and Johannes said the business has a bright future. “At the end of the year I would like to host a youth conference, and hopefully before then even employ one or two staff to really grow the brand.” Weekend Argus