AMBER COURT Cape Town-born, Los Angeles-based entrepreneur, creative and artist, Saskia Tihana Clements is on a path to success as she builds her brand over the past six years in the US. The 24-year-old, who is a quadruple threat in music, acting, dancing and writing, is currently in studio working on her debut EP, set to release later this year. Clements moved to Los Angeles (LA) in 2014 and was awarded a scholarship to study film in the US, before moving her attention to her business and music careers. Spotted by a scout when she was 14, she participated in pageants such as Miss Teen South Africa 2011 and Miss Teen YOU 2012. As a young girl, she always dreamed of living in California and pursuing her career in entertainment and business. “It took a lot of adjusting, but I needed to adapt to a new pace and culture. I love living out here, because for me being in a competitive environment with a lot of opportunity is extremely motivating,” she said. The young entrepreneur flourished further with her LA-based creative agency The Boldest that manages and market brands. “I started a marketing company in 2018, and this year, I decided to re-brand my business model around my passion for producing and directing, which is The Boldest,” she said. The company’s mission is to equip bold future-focused leaders. “I truly believe that brands, artists and athletes have a leadership role in society and should be using their platforms to be authentic and leave a lasting impact in the lives of others,” she added. Clements manages a team of creatives that are committed to the creation of innovative brands, products, music and films that align with this vision. Her team also has The Boldest Journal, an online blog. “These topics are all geared towards helping people become their best selves and step into their roles as leaders,” she said. Being a young entrepreneur in LA is both exciting and incredibly overwhelming for the young visionary. “You have to crawl, then walk, and before you know it, you’ll be running. Sometimes I have to remind myself of my progress and that I fought through a season of crawling,” explained Clements. She co-founded a health and wellness website named Afriwellness, alongside two successful South African businesswomen, Viola Manuel and her mother Deidre Clements, in 2018. The business aimed to provide simple ways to live a well-balanced and healthy lifestyle using products sourced from Africa, such as rooibos. “Our tea is sourced from a local farm that works closely with the native Khoisan community. Through our sales, I am able to give back to initiatives very close to my heart. Those being wildlife conservation and women empowerment,” she said. They recently became a part of the campaign called Girls On The Go, a movement focused on supplying young girls with eco-friendly sanitary care. Clements is also no stranger to the dance world, she has participated in and taken multiple titles in national and international dance competitions. Her acting career started when she was a young girl in Cape Town where she featured in on-stage productions such as Peter Pan, Annie, and Othello. Another exciting project is to continue to pursue music. “My EP is a story of overcoming obstacles as a woman. It highlights the journey of becoming well seasoned and finding a sense of strength through the challenges,” she explained. Listeners can expect a combination of trap and house music with a jazz influence. “I would love for my EP to appeal to those that enjoy electronic music while exploring the beauty of jazz. My visual EP will be the first major project released under my agency,” said Clements. Her mother Deidre, 52, from Blouberg, said  her daughter has always been  motivated. "As her parent, she has never failed to amaze me as to how dedicated, hard-working and resilient she is. I am super blessed and proud to be called her mum,” she added.