A group of nine sisters have dedicated their lives to creating awareness about cancer and caring for those fighting the disease. The group began in 2015, when one of the sisters was diagnosed with breast cancer and only had two days to prepare for a life-changing operation. Myra America’s left breast was removed just days after doctors confirmed she had an aggressive form of cancer. But since her surgery, America, 65, of Manenberg, is grateful to be alive and enjoys time with her four children, 11 grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. While in hospital, she vowed to become the strength and support for others fighting the disease and those who had lost their battle. America became a volunteer for the Cancer Association of South Africa (Cansa) in Athlone. Soon, her eight sisters joined her to create support a support system under the banner of Relay for Life, Cansa. The sisters are dynamic, each runs a feeding scheme in their community or are voluntary crime fighters. The sisters were born in District Six and later moved to Hanover Park with their parents and three brothers who are all deceased. They were also featured on the cooking show Laat die potte prut in 2017, where they made various dishes on an open fire. Every week, the sisters cook food for families and patients suffering from cancer, and they collect toiletries and clothing for them. Just last week, the sisters, who have dubbed themselves "Team Dirks", carried out a two-day awareness programme, cooking food and supporting those fighting the sickness and remembering those who died. A vigil and street demonstration was held in Hanover Park. America explains how she dealt with have a mastectomy: "I had a second mammogram and biopsy done after finding a lump in my breast. "They told me on the Friday I have aggressive breast cancer and scheduled to remove the breast on the Sunday, so I just had two days to let everything sink in and to tell my family. "I remember going home and recovering, sitting in my bed and that was when I told myself, I want to help people like myself. "I joined the Cancer Association." America said her sisters became her support as they are a closely-knit family. "Annually, we host a two-day event at Vygieskraal Stadium in Athlone, but due to Covid-19, we could not do that," said America. "Last week, we held a vigil for those who died and we remembered those fighting the sickness. We also marched in the streets with placards, educating young and old about cancer and celebrated the survivors. "Every Thursday, myself and a friend cook a meal for a family who has a relative fighting cancer. People forget how the families are affected by this sickness." America’s sister Gladys Dirks lives in Hanover Park  in the family house where the sisters grew up. They refer to the residence as the "Headquarters". Here, the sisters congregate and discuss how they will assist families. The sisters recently assisted 6-year-old Ziyaad Peterson, (spelling corr) who has recovered from lung cancer. Ziyaad’s mother, Yusrah Peterson, said her son had been excited to be part of the sisters’ event: “He could not stop talking about the fun he had there.” At the latest event, the sisters dedicated their time to make him and other survivors feel special. "We work well together as a team," said Dirks, who is the captain of the team and organiser. "One of our other sisters does the walking and travelling around for donations like clothing, tinned food and toiletries. This we collect for people recovering from sickness and for the families. I also make it my task to adopt a family that I know has a relative fighting Cancer in my community. "I will make sure they have a cooked meal at least once a week." Another sister, Washielah Dirks who lives in Mitchells Plain, was recently nominated for the Cape Flats Women's Alumni for her work searching for missing children and providing victim support. Weekend Argus