A group of swimmers have successfully done a relay across False Bay, from Miller’s Point in Simon’s Town to Rooi Els in 7 hours and 29 minutes. Anthony Pearse, Barend Nortje, Brad Gale and Mark Chamberlin braved the icy waters, sharks and blue bottles to set a new time for this relay swim. They each swam non-stop for an hour, and together, covered the 35km distance. The relay was by no means a leisurely swim, the wind was expected to be a west wind across False Bay and push them over and across the bay, but on Friday, it turned out to be a west-north-westerly wind at a 90-degree angle and that brought off course. The swimmers then landed on the rocks at Rooi Els and the boats that accompanied the team couldn’t go right up to the shore and the slipway, so the last swimmer had to continue right to the end of the rocks. Nortje, who already has three successful English Channel crossings under his belt, started the swim at Miller’s Point and Gale ended the relay seven and a half hours later at Rooi Els. At the end of the race, Gale said: “Feeling awesome. There was rain, wind, seasickness, vomiting, sharks, you name it, we’ve had it all, but did the fastest time across False Bay relay. When all things good come together, good results happen.” Chamberlin was swimming his solo stint, and at one point, was unaware that a hammerhead shark was swimming alongside him. The other relay swimmers watched on in amazement from the boat. Chamberlin said: “Being told that I was swimming near a hammerhead shark after leg two was terrifying.” He added that the swim was worthwhile: “It was an amazing experience, to be part of a great team like this. The biggest shock was the sea temperature to start with was 13.2°C and the last two km’s it got to 18.9°C. It was awesome to be out there, the weather was tough, choppy and some tough currents that we had to go up against in the last four to two kms.” Besides the personal achievement of each swimmer, this was also a charity swim and to date, R76 000 has been raised for the JAG Foundation via crowdfunding platform GivenGain and direct deposits to the foundation. The JAG Foundation assists youth at risk and offers life skills programmes as an alternative to youth at risk of drug and alcohol abuse as well as gangsterism. Chamberlin said: “I’m just thrilled and that we’ve raised all this money and will be able to change the lives of so many kids.” The swim was done under the banner of the Cape Long Distance Swimming Association (CLDSA) and the False Bay Swimming Association (FBSA) who observed and ratified their record and possibly a Guinness World Record.