The South African undertaker who has been detained in Mozambique while transporting bodies to Malawi  has reached out to his family and friends detailing how he has to share a cell with 52 prisoners. Patrick Lunguza, 53, of Hillview, has been imprisoned at a police station in Tete in Mozambique for 33 days where his court proceedings are taking place in Portuguese. He  faces a charge of the transportation of illegal immigrants. Lunguza and a co-driver had been transporting five bodies of Malawian nationals for burial in Malawi. He also had four relatives of the deceased travelling with him. They were stopped by officials in Mozambique who thought they were hiding drugs inside the bodies. The bodies were screened and later returned to the respective families after nothing was found. Police detained Lunguza after discovering that the four relatives’ passports had expired. But they and the co-driver were later set free. Lunguza’s family, who are in communication with the Department of International Relations Co-Operation (Dirco), have been advised that the South African government, represented by the SA High Commission in Maputo, does not provide legal advice or interpreter services. He informed his family that he had to provide food for himself while inside the cells. Lunguza was expected to make an appearance in court on Monday but has since received no communication from his attorneys or the South African High Commission in Maputo. He has appeared  in court  three times, but there was no translator so his case was postponed. On Friday, members of the task team called #FreeLunguza again paid legal fees to his attorney in Mozambique. In a letter written to his family, Lunguza said he had received no communication from his attorney, Dirco or the South African High Commission. Pastor Kenny Mc Dillon, the co-ordinator of Undertakers United Front in the Western Cape, said they had been communicating with Lunguza via letters sent on WhatsApp. Lunguza had managed to get a police official to take photographs of the letters and then send them off to family and friends. “We have received no communication from Dirco, the SA High Commission. The South African government has abandoned him and it's sad because as undertakers, we represent Home Affairs,” said Mc Dillon. “We are registered and authenticated with them. “Patrick sends us letters using WhatsApp and has to pay a police or prison official to send it off to us.” In his letter to his family, Lunguza wrote: “The last time I communicated with you was before they took my phone.  This is the only way I am communicating. You don’t have to call the number or send voice notes. Only text messages you can send. I am well despite the conditions here. “Problem is food and heat. We are 52 in one cell that takes 10 people . “Just want to find out how far your discussion with Carol (SA High Commission). So far, no one from the SA Embassy came to see me, even foreign affairs as she said. “I am now awaiting the prosecutor's date for bail hearing.” Previously, Lunguza’s attorney, Alfredo Faife, confirmed they had taken instruction to be his legal representative. But has since not responded to queries from Weekend Argus. Dirco spokesperson Lunga Ngqengelele said they were aware of the arrest and that the High Commission in Mozambique is rendering Consular assistance to the detainee. Ngqengelele said they only worked with communication with the family and could not comment on the court proceedings. He did not responded to queries about how Dirco assists South Africans who are prisoners in another country.