Cape Town - Weekend Argus can reveal that convicted murderer Najwa Petersen is eligible for parole in November 2022 while her accomplice, Waheed Hassen, meets the parole board for the first time this week. Eight family members of their victim, murdered theatre legend Taliep Petersen, will be present at the parole hearing of Hassen, which is expected to take place on Wednesday. Petersen was sentenced to 28 years after being convicted of being the mastermind behind her husband’s murder. Hassen received 25 years. Abdoer Raasiet Emjedi was sentenced to 24 years behind bars in 2009 and served his minimum term after being convicted of murder and robbery with aggravating circumstances. Emjedi was released on parole on November 11. Jefferson Snyders, who was convicted of aggravated robbery and was sentenced to ten years and acquitted of the murder, died three years ago. Taliep's family said they would be present at Hassen’s hearing even though they still did not know whether Petersen or Hassen had pulled the trigger in 2006. Nxumalo said it was of great importance that the family be given the opportunity to be part of Hassen’s hearing as well as Petersen’s. “The Department of Correctional Services can confirm that victims of crime are involved in the parole consideration process of offenders, as is the case with offenders Najwa Pietersen and Waheed Hassen. “Heads of Centre and Parole Boards have been sensitised not to proceed on these matters without involving victims. “Eight  of the victim’s family have been informed and confirmed that they will attend the sitting to make representations to the Parole Board,” said Nxumalo. In just 20 months, Petersen, who is imprisoned at Pollsmoor Prison, will be eligible for parole. Nxumalo confirmed this: “Offender Najwa Pietersen, currently incarcerated at Pollsmoor Correctional Facility, becomes eligible for parole consideration in November 2022. “Victims will also be considered in her case, as with the Hassen matter. “It is important to note that victims can, at any stage, make contact with the respective Heads of Centre with regards to enquiries that they may have on offenders’ parole considerations or any other related matter.” The Petersen family spoke to the Weekend Argus prior to the parole hearing this week. In a verbal statement given by the family, they said, as a family, they were still left with many unanswered questions. They felt blindsided by authorities who excluded them from Emjedi’s parole hearing. They reveal Hassen asked a relative to approach them to retract a letter of objection which they submitted. “With Hassen’s hearing taking place, it is still so fresh while we are trying to recover from the injury we suffered, it's like we were hit with a second wave. “We, having sat inside court, seeing the graphic images of his final moments … Hassen’s involvement and despite our father praying, for a human being to be so evil to end his life. “We will be present at the hearing as a family. We want to thank the man on the street, who lightened our load and held us during this difficult time.” Weekend Argus