CONTINUED monitoring of African Swine Flu outbreak has been highlighted as the pork export market grew to over R70million in the Western Cape. While the province’s economy contracted by 6.4% for the year 2020, agriculture remains one of the few industries which is expected to see growth, a factor taken into account when drafting economic recovery plans. The Department of Agriculture reported growth in agricultural production as well as exports in 2020 despite challenges associated with lockdown restrictions. For the 2021/2022 financial year, R26.1million is being directed towards  exclusively supporting Wesgro’s export growth programmes as well as trade and initiative programmes. By 2019, 43% of the province’s exports were destined for markets in Africa which saw Namibia being the largest market at 18.4%, while 33% went out to countries in Europe. Listed under risks factors that might affect the province’s economic outlook, is the outbreak of African swine flu which was detected in Mfuleni in January this year. This saw the 130 smallholder pig farms in Mfuleni placed under quarantine in an attempt to stop a possible spread of the disease that could affect an industry that is fast growing in export value. The total value of fresh and frozen pork meat exported from the Western Cape stood at R73 million last year as compared to R45 million in 2018. The number of pigs slaughtered in the province increased from 633 000 to 698 000 between 2018 and 2020. With an estimated 400 smallholder farmers, 140 commercial farmers and 19 stud farmers in the province, containing the outbreak is vital. Last week, officials confirmed the outbreak as being under control but cases have been reported in Eastern Cape and North West. Dr Cilliers Louw, of the South African Pork Producers Organisation (SAPPO), said work is being done to ensure that the disease is contained within the area. “There are other outbreaks in South Africa but this is the first time it was diagnosed in the Western Cape and work is being done on a daily basis to ensure that it is contained,” he said. “Bio-security is very important and it is essential to ensure that the pigs are not moved out of the area, that none are sold because the disease will move with the pigs and it is a big concern,” he said. “While we understand the socio-economic impacts of such restrictions on trade for something people depend on for money, it is important that the significance of adhering to this is highlighted.” According to SAPPO, of the 6 000 pigs in the area, only around 270 were affected and work was being done in conjunction with the SPCSA and Department of Environmental Affairs to ensure the affected ones were being properly disposed of. 