There has been little joy for the embattled chief executive of JP Markets, Justin Paulsen, in his bid to legally take back control of the online forex trading company. In June 2020 the company had its Financial Service Provider (FSP) licence (...???word missing?- provisionally suspended??-OB)  and in September 2020, the company was liquidated. The National Prosecuting Authority (NPA) worked with the Financial Service Conduct Authority (FSCA) last year and were granted a preservation order for approximately R258 million in bank accounts in the name of JP Markets and its chief executive. Paulsen then launched an application for business rescue in an attempt to overrule the liquidation and take back control of the multi-million rand business. He also applied to the Financial Service Conduct Authority (FSCA) Tribunal to appeal the liquidation. Both of these legal proceedings were dismissed last week and Paulsen must now await the outcome of the leave to appeal the liquidation of the company. JP Markets was one of the biggest, licensed companies in SA, allowing local traders to track financial markets and invest in the outcomes of fluctuations in trading. Paulsen would not comment on what the future holds for the company or whether he was planning any further legal action following the unfavourable outcomes for him to date. Paulsen’s attorney, Darren Hanekom said: “Mr Paulsen is acutely aware of the plethora of factual inconsistencies depicted by the FSCA in their selective narration of this matter and seeks to comment no further. He is of the view that only the Supreme Court of Appeal is equipped to adjudicate on this contemporary and highly complex matter.” In a statement issued this week, the FSCA confirmed it has done a forensic investigation into the operations at JP Markets: “...the investigation also uncovered material misconduct on the part of JP Markets relating to the manipulation of the pricing of bid-offer spreads of profitable clients, operating a business model that created a conflict with each of its clients and failure to comply with the conditions of the provisional suspension of its license.” The statement also confirmed that Paulsen is being investigated: JP Markets also lodged an application for leave to appeal against the liquidation order; this application must now be heard by the High Court. “The FSCA is also in the process of taking regulatory action against Mr Paulsen.” The liquidators appointed to the matter have been held up by all the court cases and have been unable to reimburse JP Markets clients, who have been waiting nearly a year for their money. The joint liquidators sent a letter to JP Markets clients stating: “Creditors are kindly requested to note that the Joint Provisional Liquidators will not be able to reduce the funds in our possession and commence with the process of finalising the administration, receiving claims and making a distribution until such time as the appeal that was noted by the erstwhile Directors has been dealt with.” One JP Markets client waiting to be reimbursed, and who wished to remain anonymous said although she is still out of pocket, she is encouraged by the latest developments. “I applaud the swift action taken by the FSCA in exercising their mandate to not only protect the interest of clients and the public but also upholding the integrity of the financial services industry. It is ultimately the clients who are being disadvantaged by the delay in the finalisation of the liquidation appeal. I hope the rule of law will prevail,” she said. 