Cape Town - South Africa is a water-scarce country, and World Water Day observed annually on March 22 raises awareness of and calls for a rethink of how we use and protect this valuable resource. This year's theme is Valuing Water. According to UN-Water, the value of water is far more than just a commodity that can be traded, as it holds "enormous and complex value for our households, food, culture, health, education, economics and the integrity of our natural environment. If we overlook any of these values, we risk mismanaging this finite, irreplaceable.“ Acknowledging this resource's value, Oceana built two desalination plants in 2018 that have since generated over 1 051 990 kilolitres (KL) of water. "As Africa's largest fishing company, it is our responsibility to promote the sustainable management of our resources – both the oceans and freshwater – through the example of our actions," said Imraan Soomra, Group CEO at Oceana. As of March 8, total capacity supplying the Cape Metro was at 74.5%, compared to 62.7% a year prior. At the same point in 2018, Cape Town’s dam levels stood at only 23.23%. Around a month later, Cape Town was bracing itself for "Day Zero" when: *the water level of the dams supplying Cape Town would reach 13.5% *municipal water supplies would largely be switched off * residents would have to queue at 149 water collection points around the City * residents limited to a daily ration of 25 litres of water per person Soomra said this was a stark reminder of how close Cape Town came to be the first major metropolis in the world to run out of water and an important lesson for countries around the globe on the need to manage this precious resource. As part of its sustainability efforts, Oceana revised its strategies to include several water-saving initiatives across its facilities, which saw the group decrease total demand on municipal water supply by between 30-40%. By switching from using potable water to desalinated seawater wherever possible, and using borehole water at the group's cold commercial storage facilities in Paarden Eiland and Epping, the group was able to increase water saving efficiencies, adds Soomra. Oceana faced the additional challenge of running out of water to supply its factories in St Helena Bay and Laaiplek. The risk of factory closure and the loss of over 2 500 jobs called for early decision making. The group secured board approval for R35 million to build two desalination plants to support its factories and save jobs. Now, nearly three years later, these facilities have limited reliance on municipal water, massively reducing the burden on the municipal water grid. By October 2020, it generated 1 051 990 KL of water to run its factories to producing its Lucky Star range in the St Helena Bay and Laaiplek canneries. Lucky Star pilchards is an essential part of South Africa's food security, with more than three million servings per day, providing a cost-effective and nutritious protein source for between 5-10% of South Africa's total population. The desalinated water has been tested and conforms to the South African National Standard for drinking water. The water is processed and treated through stringent quality specification using the reverse osmosis process. "We must re-educate, rethink and re-engineer how we view and use water. As a group, our core purpose - to make a positive impact on society by creating long-term sustainable value for all stakeholders will continue to drive our creative solutions to challenges facing our business, workforce and communities," adds Soomra.