An organisation is on a mission to distribute 20 000 Qur’ans this year to destitute communities after donating 60 000 nationally over the past five years. The NPO, Fusion Inyameko Foundation SA, was founded by couple Nizaam and Sadeka Abdol eight years ago, with the aim of uplifting communities. They are based on Rosmead Avenue. The word, Inyameko is Xhosa for care. Five years ago, Imam Salieg Isaacs approached the Abdols with his ideology of spreading positivity via the distribution of Qur’ans. In the past five years, 60 000 Qur’ans were distributed nationally with the help of donors and the Muslim Judicial Council (MJC). The retail value of the copies of the Qur’an is priced at R70 each. The organisation focuses on programmes such as their school drives and interventions with the youth. Abdol said they run an annual programme dedicated at equipping young boys with skills for manhood. "We focus on training young boys on their coming of age, they are between the ages of 8 to 12 years old," explained Nizaam. "We deal with the issues that parents are perhaps too afraid to focus on." Now with the assistance of generous donors, Nizaam and his organisation and Imam Isaacs are still able to distribute Qur’ans during the pandemic and the holy month of Ramadan. The distribution takes places in communities such as Hanover Park, Parkwood and Manenberg to Stellenbosch. Isaacs said they carry out a door-to-door distribution: "The Qur’an drive is an annual initiative that takes place in various communities," he said. "This is the reciting of the Qur’an in many homes, handing over Qur’ans to Muslims and non-Muslims and to translate it." Abdol said the distribution takes place as far as inside prisons to taxi ranks and gang-ridden areas by spreading positivity and hope. They wear their Muslim attire and knock on doors, reciting the Qur’an and explaining its meaning by translating it in languages such as English, Afrikaans, Xhosa and Portuguese. "Imam Salieg Isaacs, who is a good friend of ours, shared his idea of distributing the Qur’an in communities like Manenberg," he said. "We realised that there was a lot of darkness in households and that there needed light and the word of Allah, and to change the media perception of Islam. "We share what is written in the Qur’an, translating it for non-Muslims in the various languages like Portuguese, English, Xhosa, English and Afrikaans. "We visited prisons and we realised that there are so many people hungry for divine intervention. "Last week we visited Wynberg terminus, connecting with drivers and passengers, spreading light and that there is a higher power. "We have people turning to Islam behind bars." Imam Isaacs said the Qur’ans were available in four languages, which is Arabic, English, Afrikaans and Xhosa. "Depending on which community we visit, for example if it’s Langa, we will take a Xhosa edition or northern suburbs, Afrikaans."