A WHATSAPP conversation containing the address of slain Anti-Gang Unit (AGU) commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Charl Kinnear, just days before a hand grenade was planted outside of his home, may shed more light on who the mastermind is behind a web of attacks on the senior police officer’s life. Kinnear was assassinated in September last year outside of his home in Bishop Lavis. On Friday, Amaal Jantjies took the witness stand for the fourth time during her formal bail application at the Parow Regional Court. She was being cross-examined by State prosecutor Blaine Lazarus. Jantjies and her co-accused, Farez Smith, aka Mamokie, and Janick Adonis have been charged of conspiracy to commit murder and procuring explosives, relating to the hand grenade incident. Both Smith and Adonis are serving a sentence for another crime and have since abandoned their bail application. Jantjies previously claimed in her testimony that she had four meetings with AGU head Brigadier Andre Lincoln and a few other police officers, together with her co-accused, Janick Adonis in November 2019. She has also claimed she met Lincoln and the police when Adonis made appearances at the Khayelitsha Magistrate's Court and they (Jantjies and Adonis) had been approached to assist in obtaining a firearm which had been used during the murder of a police officer. Previously Jantjies claimed that Lincoln had asked her and Adonis to help with carrying out a hit on someone who had been threatening himself and his colleague, Kinnear. On April 8, the State revealed that underworld figure Nafiz Modack had allegedly ordered a hit on Kinnear. The State said Jantjies had sent Kinnear’s address to Adonis. On Friday, the State put it to Jantjies that she had received a WhatsApp message in November 2019,  which contained the address of Kinnear and had forwarded the information to Adonis. Jantjies previously revealed that she had recorded everything on her cellphone. Lazarus then asked Jantjies who the author of the WhatsApp message was. “From whom did you receive it?” Jantjies claimed she did not know who the person was and had never met the person who had sent her Kinnear’s address. She said Lincoln had wanted her to meet this person and that she was tasked with getting this individual’s number plate in Plattekoof. “I had never spoken to this person face to face and I do not know this person,” answered Jantjies. Lazarus then asked Jantjies: “Did Nafiz Modack send you the address? Who is this person? That person you spoke to was Nafiz Modack.” But Jantjies was only willing to confirm that the information had come from a number on her cellphone. An image of the WhatsApp message was displayed on a large screen inside court. Lazarus told Jantjies that they believed only one meeting had taken place and that they were in possession of affidavits from police officers to prove it. Meanwhile, Jantjies claimed she had four meetings with prominent police officers and was determined to prove it via an affidavit from an AGU officer, which she indicated she would use during her trial. The matter was postponed to April 30. Widow, Nicolette Kinnear was also present inside the court and was accompanied by her two sons. Previously Nicolette told Weekend Argus that she hoped for a breakthrough soon. Meanwhile, Zane Kilian’s case continued at the Bellville Magistrates’ Court las week where his bail was previously denied. Kilian is facing a charge of murder, following Kinnear’s assassination. This after police linked him for several pings to Kinnear’s work and private cellphones, for location and tracking purposes. Kilian is also charged with the attempted murder of City attorney, William Booth who was shot and wounded outside his home in Higgovale in April last year. On Thursday, Kilian’s case went ahead in absentia at the Bellville court while he and other inmates were placed in isolation at Goodwood Prison due to Covid-19 regulations. State prosecutor Greg Wolmarans informed the court that cellphone analysis and the financial investigation were still outstanding. The matter was postponed to May 24. The case against Modack’s security manager Petrus Visser is expected to take place on May 12. Visser, who is charged with intimidation, had allegedly threatened Captain Edward du Plessis, according to court documents. The alleged threat was that he abstain from his investigation into Kinnear’ case or face being killed. Visser had allegedly called du Plessis, informing him that there was R1 million for his murder. Visser is currently out on a R20 000 bail.