WHEN schools reopen next week Monday the Western Cape Education Department (WCED) hopes to have placed 2500 unregistered pupils with the use of mobile classrooms as school infrastructure becomes dire. When schools closed for the end of the first term, on Friday, there were still pupils in the Western Cape who had not seen the inside of a classroom this year. This is despite desperate parents having scrambled to find placements for their children for the year. A written response to a question to Western Cape Education MEC Debbie Schafer, from the Good Party’s Brett Herron on the number of school buildings in the province, revealed the dire shortage of school infrastructure in the province that spoke not only to the availability of spots, but the conditions of building housing schools. Schafer said in her response that according to the department’s User-Asset Management Plan, there were 1 544 schools in the Western Cape, of which 14 were facilities that operated as Art and Music Centres, 72 were special schools, 8 were state-owned early childhood development centres, and the 1 450 were public schools. Of the public schools, around 1 067 were primary schools and the remaining 383 operated as high schools. This week Schafer said the department was implementing a plan to place the remaining 2550 pupils who were yet to be registered for the 2021 school year. On Monday, Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga said her department had spent over R774 million on mobile classrooms throughout the country. The Western Cape received 206 of these classrooms. She said this plan included the provision of 129 more mobile classrooms to schools and the addition of new teaching posts. “While some schools already have extra classrooms available, others do require mobile classrooms. Unfortunately, the mobile classrooms take time to construct and can’t be placed immediately,” said Schafer. “Schools that have received the additional teaching posts have agreed to accommodate learners in alternative spaces until the classrooms are constructed (such as the school hall or laboratory space). Spiwo Dubulekwele, a principal at Solomon Mahlangu Primary School in Kraaifontein, said the shortage of mobile classrooms is reaching crisis levels at the temporary school that has been waiting for a permanent structure since its inception in 2017. “We have 914 learners from Grade 1 to 7 with the foundation phases (Grade 1 to 3) each having three classes each, but the congestion begins when we go to Grade 5 to 7 who only have enough classrooms to accommodate two classes,” he said. “The school grounds are so small that our learners cannot take lunch breaks outside because there is no adequate space that would allow them to play and still be social distant. They can only leave the classrooms to use the bathroom and then have their lunches inside. “Our teachers also sacrificed their staffroom to turn it into a classroom. We are desperate for classroom space. We had hope, that our school would have been built by now, given how R20 million was allocated in 2019, but the land grab (in Kraaifontein last year) has set us back even longer. “We are worried about overcrowding and have raised this with the department.” The school had land that is now occupied by dwellers since land grabs, last year. Schafer said many schools in the province have maintenance backlogs. “(They) need urgent repairs to critical infrastructure components such as roofs, electrical, plumbing and structural,” she said. “There are also 78 schools constructed of materials that have been declared inappropriate in terms of the national Norms and Standards regulations. Twenty-two of these schools are in need of repairs but have not been declared unsafe. “Any emergency repairs required at these schools is attended to urgently to avoid deterioration and failure of infrastructure.” 