STRUGGLE veteran Ernie Lennert, described as “the interminable teacher and permanent revolutionary”, was remembered at a service in Goedverwacht, Piketberg, yesterday. Abraham Elias “Ernie” Lennert died at his home on March 28, at the age of 88. He was a member of the Non-European Unity Movement, the Teachers’ League of SA and the New Unity Movement, as well as a teacher at Trafalgar High School in the 1960s. Lennert was born in Kraaifontein, grew up in Genadendal and, during his married life, lived in Ravensmead where he was active in the anti-apartheid struggle. During his tenure at Trafalgar High, he influenced and enlightened many young minds at the time, including Western Cape High Court Judge Siraj Desai who paid tribute to him at the service. Desai said that Lennert was a passionate teacher and one of his fondest memories was an impromptu school trip to the Castle of Good Hope. “That was the lesson he taught us on the process of  the enslavement of our people, we were in the dungeons of the castle and he told us this is where your forefathers were kept,” said Desai. He added: “It appears to me that throughout his life he continued to serve, because of education which was rooted in his days both at Trafalgar (High School) and in the Unity Movement.” New Unity Movement secretary Mickey Titus also reflected on Lennert’s life. “He made it his duty to ensure that his students understood the world around them and he gave them the tools and the desire to change that world. He became an enemy of the state, because he dared to teach that all people are born equal,” said Titus. The speakers at the service shared stories about how Lennert had left his mark in the hearts and minds of those he taught both in and outside of the classroom. Titus said: “He wanted people to know that if they wished to free themselves from the oppression and the heartaches they suffered they had to understand the process of their enslavery. Ernie preached that people must know how they are oppressed, who oppressed them and why they remain oppressed.”