FARMERS have caught a driver dumping rotten fruit and vegetables on their doorstep and are calling for authorities to help in ending dumping in Schaapkraal, Philippi. The CCTV footage has been handed to the City’s law enforcement who have confirmed that an investigation is under way while City officials warned that dumping could cost you R18 000 if you are found guilty of the offence. In CCTV footage, the company has been identified as DM Removal, which removes rubble, grass and furniture. For years, farmers have been battling to put an end to dumping on their farms and at their residences. This included bodies that were dumped after murders, stolen or hijacked cars, rotten fruit and vegetables and dead and abused animals. Farmers have now installed CCTV cameras in the hope of recording people dumping materials, and criminal activity. Their farms have also been targeted several times by thieves for equipment, cable and stock. On Monday, April 5, just before 8pm, farmer Agmat Brinkhuis heard a truck speeding outside of his home between Middle and Boom streets. He said when he looked at his CCTV footage, he noticed a truck driver dumping heaps of rotten fruit and vegetables. He alerted his neighbours who are all members of the Schaapkraal Safety Forum. Law enforcement were notified. Brinkhuis and a few farmers managed to reach the wife of the driver and said he must return and collect his dirt. “They claimed it was a driver and the company's details could clearly be seen on the truck,” he said. “My wife called the number and the wife answered, claiming it was the driver we had seen on our footage, and said she would get her husband to come and collect the dirt. “The man came and collected the dirt and myself and a few farmers followed him to see where he was going with the dirt after he had left my home. “He just went and dumped it near Jim se Bos informal settlement.” Brinkhuis said he had been left disappointed after authorities did not impound the truck after they called for an investigation. “I have given my statement to law enforcement. We are often told to report illegal dumping and now they are asking these questions on how it happened when I gave the CCTV footage. “The truck must be impounded because there is no respect for our properties.” Safety Forum member Jackie Ruppersberg said they had made numerous appeals to authorities about dumping on the farms. “The reality is that there are people who know who these people are who are dumping,” she said. “Bodies are dumped even on the sand dunes, like that of Meghan Cremer and Michaela Williams. Car parts and even animals are dumped here. “We are told to report illegal dumping but nothing happens to the perpetrators.” Inspector Wayne Dyason, the City’s law enforcement spokesperson, said: “The matter was received by our staff and is currently being investigated.” Ward councillor Elton Jansen warned that people caught dumping could face fines of up to R18 000. “I am aware of the dumping incident which was brought to my attention by one of the Schaapkraal residents.  The incident (was) caught on a private CCTV camera. “The resident then directly contacted the culprit who agreed to pick up the dumping. “Sadly, the perpetrator apparently dumped it in 17th Avenue and footage was escalated to law enforcement. “I would like to commend once again the active Schaapkraal community (which) is very vigilant with this kind of  illegal activity. “It is sad that businesses and other community members are not taking pride in their area to dump stuff in front of other residents’ properties. “Under the City’s anti-littering and dumping campaign, first-time offenders will be charged upwards of R8 700 for contravening the City’s regulations. “Second offenders are charged R11 700 and those found guilty a third time will be fined R17 400.” The fees excluded a fine of R5 000 for illegal dumping. “The person caught dumping must pay both the fine and impoundment fee and submit both receipts to the pound in order for the vehicle to be released. “Residents are requested to report any dumping by phoning 021 487 4800 from a landline and 107 from a cell phone or alert myself as the local ward councillor for the area.” The owner of the company DM Removal, who did not want to be identified, said he had relieved his driver of his duties after the incident. “I was not at home when it happened and the driver had come and parked the vehicle thereafter,” he said. “My wife received a call about what took place and I went back to collect the dumped goods. “This is not the first time this driver has done this and it was for that reason that I decided to let him go. I am aware of the investigation.” 