The world of work changed when the lockdown was first announced, but it’s often overlooked that all the other things we did – like grabbing a cup of coffee on the go – also came to an end. Bongani Rasmeni, the founder and owner of Gugulethu Coffee, has not had it easy during the lockdown – his business was modelled on his pop-up coffee stalls at events and office buildings across the city. Rasmeni, a trained barista, said: “I was watching the coffee market when I was working in a well-known coffee shop, I started working for them in 2004. Ten years later, in 2014, I started Gugulethu Coffee.” His goal was to build on his brand of organic, single origin coffee and spread the Java joy to as many as possible. He couldn’t get the business off the ground on his own but he was able to get an investor who shared his vision, to invest financially in Gugulethu Coffee. “The investor helped me get the equipment, she called me and said I should come and set up at her office in Roeland Square, in the city centre,” says Rasmeni. “Then I was able to network and I got to do a cycling event in Stellenbosch where I set up the coffee bar in the VIP area. After that I did the Sun Met and a lot of other corporate events. I had a team of people I could call on whenever I needed baristas for events.” Last year, he developed his own coffee blend which he named Mama. “I had just started selling it when the lockdown was announced. It’s an appreciation to my mother and other women. I had one restaurant and one office building I was supplying with my blend and it was just starting to do well when the lockdown started.” Rasmeni had struck a deal with Primedia Broadcasting in Green Point, the home of radio stations Cape Talk and Kfm, and he set up a coffee bar in their offices. “I was based at Primedia in Green Point and supplied Cape Talk and Kfm, with my own blend at the pop-up in their office. Then with the lockdown there was no one in offices anymore, and then I also had to stay home. The business suffered during the lockdown. I have no other space now and I’m waiting on people to get back to me so that I can get a space.” He is hustling, selling his coffee blend on social media and by any other means he can, but his business is struggling. Rasmeni has yet to set up e-commerce channels and a website to sell his coffee offerings – but he is hopeful of a bright future. “I’m speaking to people in office spaces to try and supply them with coffee, so I am looking for those opportunities now,” he said. “I’m also looking to get involved at craft markets and the small events that are happening again. “Since I started I’ve been doing everything myself, so I don’t have a website yet so it’s mainly on Instagram and Facebook that people can reach me. I have my machines and equipment at home so I am not going to give up.” In the interim, he is also providing training to anyone who wants to become a barista or even just learn more about coffee. His optimism is what is keeping him going and keeping his business alive, Rasmeni said: “The future's looking good, it's just a matter of time – I’m still young. I need to keep on trading and I am waiting on events, conferences and even weddings.” 