THE 15 teachers fired by the Western Cape Education Department over the last two years for sexual assault/harassment will find themselves either banned for life or for no fewer than four years. The department published new guideline on penalties that will be imposed on teachers who have been found guilty of various charges of misconduct. The regulations were gazetted last week on Friday and provide a comprehensive list of the bans to be imposed once a teacher has been found guilty. A year ban will could be imposed for absenteeism, sleeping on duty and wrongful use of school property. A three-year ban will be imposed for teachers found guilty of running money-lending schemes on school grounds, being drunk on duty, mismanagement of school finances and property damage. A four-year ban will be imposed for discrimination of any kind banned by the Constitution and the sexual harassment of another employee. A five-year ban will be imposed for carrying a gun to school without permission, theft, bribery, fraud or corruption with regard to exams or promotions. A lifetime ban will be imposed for having a sexual relationship with a pupil, sexual harassment or sexual harassment of a pupil, being possession of an intoxicating substance, and causing a pupil to commit any of the above. A guilty verdict by the courts on charges of murder, attempted murder, rape and assault with intent to do grievous bodily harm will also lead to a lifetime ban. For the financial years of 2019/2020 as well as 2020/2021, WCED sanctioned as many 437 principals, teachers and school management teams (which includes deputy principals and heads of departments) for misconduct ranging from theft, fraud, assault and sexual harassment/assault to financial mismanagement. Unions have welcomed the move by the department saying it was long overdue, particularly when dealing with issues of those teachers who had been dismissed for incidents of sexual assault or harassment. The South African Council for Educators’ 2019/2020 annual report said sexual offences remained the second highest category for cases of misconduct levelled against teachers. For the 2019/2020 financial year, cases rose by 29, which was 43% increase. “Educators that are found guilty of sexual misconduct are sent to the Department of Social Development to be entered into the register of persons who are unfit to work with children,” read the report. “In 2019/2020 a total of 17 teachers were entered into such a register.” A response to a written questions by the ANC’s Khalid Sayed in the Western Cape Legislature to MEC Debbie Schäfer disclosed that for 2019/2020, of the 250 teachers sanctioned for various charges of misconduct, five were fired for sexual harassment and sexual assault. In that same period, a principal was also fired for improper conduct related to sexual harassment, while two senior staff were sanctioned for sexual harassment, with one fired and the other received a final warning and a fine. For the current financial year, 88 teachers have been sanctioned for various incidents of misconduct, two of them fired for sexual assault. Basil Manuel, president of the National Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa, said: “We welcome these regulations because they provide not just clarity but uniformity that can be applied across provinces. About four years ago there was a teacher found guilty and dismissed after it emerged that three schoolgirls had fallen pregnant by him in KZN, and he later surfaced in the Eastern Cape after it came out there that a learner had fallen pregnant. “Not all provincial departments were imposing similar bans in terms of the re-employment of teachers who had been dismissed, and they were able to get work in another province or at times another district without having served out the terms around their dismissal. “Implementation will be important to make sure that the different agencies work together to ensure that the bans imposed are adhered to, particularly with those found guilty of sexual misconduct; they have no business working where there are children.” 