Cape Town - The trial of a well known Cape Town musician accused of sexually assaulting, grooming and raping boys could go ahead later this year. The 49-year-old man cannot be named. He appeared in the Blue Downs Magistrates Court on Friday and is a popular jazz musician, music producer and music teacher. On July 2, he will appear in the Blue Downs Regional Court where prosecutors will re-evaluate the evidence against him and possibly set a date for a trial. Unlike other court appearances, there were no protesters outside the court and the accused was quickly whisked away by his defence attorney Anver Titus and into a family member’s vehicle after his short appearance in the dock. The accused, who previously resided in Soneike, near Kuils River, has only been allowed to return to his home for the purposes of putting the property up for sale and is not allowed contact with any of the complainants known to him. Last year, a 21-year-old man filed charges against the musician, claiming he had been sexually assaulted. It’s not yet known whether the investigating officer in the case has been able to track down any other complainants and whether further statements have been made by other victims. Activist for the One Billion Rising movement, Latifah Jacobs, said it is an outrage that the accused cannot be named because this prevents other possible victims from coming forward. Jacobs said: “With the #SayHisName campaign that we are doing at the moment we will name him… We will definitely highlight this because we have no problem saying his name.” Jacobs added: “I’m happy with the fact that right now the prosecutor thinks that the evidence is strong enough for the case to continue, otherwise the regional court wouldn’t have taken it.” At the previous court appearance in February, the National Prosecuting Authority went on record to state that they are confident that a case can be made against the accused which is why they requested a date for the matter to proceed in the Blue Downs Regional Court. The accused has reportedly moved to Belhar while the case against him proceeds in court. Weekend Argus