 A weekend retreat doesn’t have to be an out-of-reach daydream – a break away from the hustle and bustle of the daily routine is easier than you think. When people consider weekend retreats, it usually means they want to relax, unwind and spend some time at a spa; but there are getaways available that offer all of that and much more. The Weekend Herbal Retreat on May 29 at Hearth & Soul Eco Farm & Spiritual Retreat in Stanford in the Overberg offers an opportunity unwind. This break is not just an escape from  everyday stress but a chance for you to learn something new which you can us to improve your daily routine. The retreat offers yoga and meditation, walks and foraging for herbs, a herbal medicine-making workshop, a herbal cosmetic-making workshop and cooking with herbs classes. It’s a great opportunity to connect with nature, learn something new and take the experiences home to use in a practical way. It’s all under the guidance of Trish Taylor, owner of Life Retreat Healing Hub, who is passionate about health and healing. Her primary focus is on wellness and resilience in the workplace and home life. Taylor is also a registered herbalist, yoga teacher, and author. Taylor, her husband, and four children all live in Cape Town and her objective at the moment is to offer tools to small, medium and micro enterprises to survive the Covid-19 pandemic. She’s a firm believer that most South African businesses can survive the lockdown if they are resilient and open to change, and if employees' health and wellness is prioritised. If a weekend away is not an option, the team also offer Herbal Day retreats where the same activities, training and pampering are offered. With the season changing and the mid-point of the year upon us, this is a good time to consider connecting with nature and reflecting on your health and wellness. The Herbal Healing Weekend Retreat costs R3 300 a person while the Herbal Healing Day is R850. For more information email: info@liferetreat.co.za or call 087 135 5542