Cape Town - Four suspects including alleged underworld  boss Nafiz Modack have been arrested in connection to the attempted murder of Advocate William Booth and Anti-gang unit Commander, Lieutenant Colonel Charl Kinnear. The dramatic arrest was made on Thursday when investigators pounced on the group at Century City after a high speed car chase which caught motorists near the popular shopping complex and gated communities off guard. Police say Modack and his accomplices  attempted to evade police. Two vehicles were searched at the scene. Colonel Katlego Mogale of the Hawks said the police ministry had welcomed the arrest and that they were expected to appear at the Cape Town Magistrates Court on charges of conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, extortion and kidnapping and that more arrest were expected.  “Four suspects aged between 29 and 49 were arrested this afternoon by the National Task team which was executing six warrants of arrests in Western Cape. “The arrests follows the cases of attempted murder of an Advocate, murder of police officer as well as gang related extortion, kidnapping and intimidation in the Milnerton area. “The suspects were  in Century View. The team attempted to stop them,  they accelerated with one vehicle missing one of the members. “A high speed chase ensued and the suspects were cornered at Sable road and arrested. During the arrest, two vehicles were searched. “Inside the Mercedes with two occupants that was stopped, two unlicensed firearms were recovered. In the second vehicle, a Toyota Hilux with two occupants, an unlicensed firearm was recovered. The Police Ministry has welcomed the latest arrests as General Bheki Cele said: "This breakthrough must be congratulated more so because we have always maintained that the murder of Lt Col Kinnear was no random act but a callous act that's part of a conspiracy which is being exposed by the work of the police. “We also expect more arrests to follow." “The four will appear on Monday in the Cape Town Magistrates Court on charges of conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, extortion and kidnapping. “The names of the suspects and further details will only be released once they appear in court. “ Modack has been under the radar after the attempted assassination Booth in April last year. The arrest comes just a week after three members of the Terrible West Siders gang who conspired and attempted to murder Booth were sentenced. Kauthar Brown, Ebrahim Deare and Riyaad Gesant were charged with aiding and abetting the activities of a gang, conspiracy to commit murder and attempted murder of Booth. Deare was further charged with illegal possession of a firearm and ammunition. Brown was sentenced to five years imprisonment for aiding and abetting the activities of a criminal gang. She was sentenced to three years correctional supervision for the attempted murder. The sentence includes house arrest and  960 hours of community service. Deare was sentenced to five years for aiding and abetting the activities of a criminal gang, five years imprisonment for conspiracy to commit murder and 15 years for attempted murder with five years suspended for five years on condition he is not convicted for attempted murder committed during the period of suspension. He was further sentenced to six years for illegal possession of a firearm and three years imprisonment for illegal possession of ammunition. He was effectively sentenced to ten years imprisonment. Gesant was sentenced to five years imprisonment for aiding and abetting the activities of a criminal gang, five years imprisonment for conspiracy to commit murder, and eight years for attempted murder with three years suspended on con Two weeks ago, Amaal Jantjies who is appearing for her bail application at the Parow Regional Court relating to a hand grenade incident outside of Kinnear’ home in 2019, was also questioned by the State  about the fact that she received Kinnear’s home address from someone via Whatsapp, who was believed to be Modack. The State has previously stated during proceedings that Modack had ordered a hit on Kinnear who had been investigating underworld giants. Zane Kilian is facing a charge of murder, following Kinnear’s assassination. This after police linked him for several pings to Kinnear’s work and private cellphones, for location and tracking purposes. Kilian is also charged with the attempted murder of Booth. State prosecutor Greg Wolmarans  said two weeks ago that cellphone analysis and the financial investigation were still outstanding. The matter was postponed to May 24. The case against Modack’s security manager Petrus Visser is expected to take place on May 12. Visser, who is charged with intimidation, had allegedly threatened Captain Edward du Plessis, according to court documents. The alleged threat was that he abstained from his investigation into Kinnear’ case or face being killed. Visser had allegedly called du Plessis, informing him that there was R1 million for his murder. Visser is currently out on a R20 000 bail. 