LOCKDOWN affected one of life’s simple pleasures − weekend markets − and many small businesses’ and vendors’ income dried up. One such well-loved market is the Vegan Goods Market that was a regular feature at The Source Yoga Studio in Constantia. Established in 2016, Shaun Robertson and Sarah-Lee Beckett are the co-owners of the Vegan Goods Market. Beckett was the founder  and in 2019, Robertson joined her as co-owner. “It started as once a month when I came on board in June 2019 and it was official − Sarah was thinking of branching out ... and she saw the vision of me taking over the market as she gave the reins over to me.” Robertson said within a year he worked hard to increase the reach of the market and grown the brand. By the start of 2020, the market was held on a monthly basis in Woodstock, the Cape Town City Centre and in Constantia. He said: “On our database we have just over 500 registered vendors but from market to market we’d have 35-50 vendors trading on a day.” The market included vegan food and beverages, body and lifestyle products as well as clothing and even tarot card reading. “There was a market that happened just before the news of lockdown, and to be quite honest, we didn’t know what to do because this was the first time our business had to stop.” Robertson said they considered creating an online e-commerce platform from which their vendors could trade, but they soon realised that it was the social aspect of their business that was its greatest selling point. So they promoted products on their social media platforms and held thumbs that they could go back to business as a market. As soon as the lockdown levels allowed, the Vegan Goods Market returned in the middle of 2020, but things had changed and by the end of the year they received the news that they would no longer be able to trade at their venue in Constantia. Last week, the Vegan Goods Market relaunched at The Range in Tokai and Robertson said: “The journey to finding the new venue was a tough one, but The Range had an existing market and they have all the infrastructure that we need.” Social distancing is now the norm − people need to wear their masks while browsing the stalls and can only take off their masks when they are away from others and eating or drinking. The next Vegan Goods Market is on Sunday, April 25, in Tokai. But Robertson is hopeful about their long-term future. “We are now in the process of creating VGM (Vegan Goods Market) merchandise, caps, T-shirts, produce bags and a few other things just to establish ourselves as a brand and also to create engagement online with online influencers.” He added: “We are also looking to find other venues in the northern suburbs and closer to town so that we can cater to the vegan communities in those neighbourhoods as well.”