Bonginkosi Madikizela has apologised for the “error” surrounding his qualifications scandal but claims he was targeted for running for mayoral candidate for the Cape Town metro. Speaking out for the first time since he was suspended by Premier Alan Winde from his position as MEC for Public Works and Transport in the province, Madikizela has called the action against him a ruse that has to do with him standing for the position of mayoral candidate for City of Cape Town. This came after it was established that Madikizela did not have a BCom degree as was declared in his CV. Madikizela will also have to account to the party’s Federal Legal Commission after the matter was referred to the commission for investigation by the party’s Helen Zille. This is not the first time he landed in hot water during party contestation. Last year his running mate, Masizole Mnqasela alleged that he had been made aware of a plot by Madikizela to try and kill him while the pair were running for the position of provincial leader for the DA. In a post on his social media account on Saturday morning Madikizela said: “To err is human and when you’ve made a mistake you humble yourself before God and ask for forgiveness.” “We must be frank here, this so-called ‘expose’ has nothing to do with a noble act to correct the wrong, it has everything to do with (the) Cape Town mayorship contest. The idea of having someone they can’t control or look after their interest terrified them. This is what I go through every time I contest for a position in the party or in government. “I will humble myself, allow the process to unfold and accept the punishment which I hope will fit the crime. “As wrong as this was, I didn’t pretend to be a doctor and performed surgeries that put people’s lives in danger or an engineer that built bridges that will collapse and kill people.” Madikizela said the degree in question was never a requirement in the positions he has occupied and it never benefited him in any way. “I also hope people will not apply double standards, what is done on the left must also be done on the right,” he added. 