Healthcare workers, nurses and doctors will be at the front of the queue when the Covid-19 vaccine arrives in South Africa, and people are inoculated in February. Conspiracy theories about the vaccine have been debunked numerous times by the government and health officials. Weekend Argus spoke to  frontline workers who are ready to receive the vaccine and help against the spread of Covid-19. Head of Department of Medicine at Victoria Hospital Dr Nasief van der Schyff said: “I am looking forward to receiving the vaccine and have no real fears or hesitation as I fully trust the scientific and regulatory process. Like any other vaccine or new drug, there are bound to be side effects that affect a small number of recipients; the type and risk of major adverse events (MAE) would have been evaluated. Those at risk of MAE would have been identified by now. I cannot think that I would be at risk of these MAE, if there are any. “The risk-benefit of the vaccine dramatically favours administration of the vaccine, the biggest risk being death. People often have difficulty understanding this. With the mass rollout of the vaccine, I am hoping that we can significantly reduce the risk of those at high risk of Covid-19 and that society can return to some level of normality, that our economy can recover and that people can start rebuilding their lives. Conspiracy theories about the vaccine makes me very upset. These are dangerous people. These conspiracy theories undermine our efforts to save lives as those who do not take the vaccine will continue putting their lives in significant danger. Science has been the bedrock of our profession and has allowed for many advances in the last century. Our children are routinely vaccinated against diseases such as smallpox, whooping cough and diphtheria, and these disease has been completely abolished.” A porter at Tygerberg Hospital Vigenee Cole Davids said: “We frontliners and health workers have to take the lead and try to protect not only the public, but ourselves and our loved ones. Let’s be fighters and fight this fight.” Head of Nursing  Groote Schuur Hospital Aghmad Mohamed said: “The public can help us fight this deadly pandemic by getting vaccinated which will bring us closer to the eradication of the virus much quicker. This will bring us closer to the possibility of returning back to some type of normality. “I understand that people are confused and not sure if they should take the vaccine or not. Let me reassure you that with any new vaccine, there are authorities who ensure the potential benefits of the vaccine outweighs the potential risks. When any vaccine or medication is developed, the safety of it is studied thoroughly in clinical trials by experts. This is not the first vaccine being developed. This is not the first time we are in a position we find ourselves in now where a vaccine was urgently needed. We, as a nation, have been through this before, but not at this scale. But we saved many lives, and we lived normal lives after those vaccination campaigns.” Social Work Supervisor at Tygerberg Hospital Andre Lindoor said: “We’ve seen the devastating effects of this virus on our families, communities and society. One should, therefore, ask yourself, what can I do to save lives.There is no way we are going to stop this virus. My simple answer would be: vaccinate. By doing this, I would not just protect myself but also those around me. We, as healthcare workers, should lead by example, as the rest and the seriously ill, depend on us to protect them and to reduce the spread of the virus. 