Civic and non-governmental organisations have added their voice  to the growing criticism of local business tycoon Johann Rupert's Covid-19 "vaccine jostling". The C19 People's Coalition described the reported "jostling" as "morally and politically" reprehensible. Rupert reportedly jumped the vaccination queue in Switzerland recently, and received a dose at a Hirslanden-Gruppe hospital where he is a shareholder. African countries have yet to receive the Covid-19 vaccine, with South Africa's first batch - sourced from India - scheduled to land at the OR Tambo International Airport tomorrow (Monday). The coalition said Rupert's action was a display of "the burgeoning vaccine apartheid" facing the world. Rupert, who is the chairperson of the Swiss-based luxury goods company Richemont, and SA-based Remgro, refused to comment. "As a movement seeking to ensure that South Africa’s response to the Covid-19 crisis is rooted in social justice and democratic principles, the C19 People’s Coalition condemns Rupert’s actions," the coalition’s spokesperson, Tauriq Jenkins, said. The organisations said the actions were also contrary to the values of fairness and co-operation the people of South Africa had fought to protect. "Every person has a right to health-care services, which includes access to the vaccines; these are not for billionaires or wealthy countries alone," said Jenkins. He added that Rupert's "abuse of wealth and power" was a symptom of a deeper crisis in the global response to the pandemic. "Every day in our country and across the world, disadvantaged, exploited and vulnerable people, essential workers and health-care workers, who are predominantly women, are left to face this pandemic with hunger, weakened and compromised immune systems and inadequate provision of housing, water, health care and social safety nets. Privatised, international health-care systems, subject to profit, leave health care itself inaccessible to the majority of our country and planet," said Jenkins. He added that the civic structures were concerned about how vaccines were managed globally and feared that if they were provided to the "privileged" few, this would translate to "elitism". Jenkins said ordinary South Africans volunteered for the vaccine trials to aid testing for efficacy and safety. "This collective effort should remind us that the vaccine should be fairly distributed to all, beginning with those most at risk. It should not be able to be bought by those who can afford it," he added. The coalition called on institutions and governments that had bestowed honorary doctorates and national orders on Rupert to rescind those.  Stellenbosch University appointed Rupert as Chancellor in 2009, a position he held until 2019. He was awarded the "prestigious" Pro Bene Merito Award in 2019. The university, however, would not comment on the organisations' call. "“It [Mr Rupert receiving the vaccine] is a private matter on which the university will not comment,” said spokesperson Martin Viljoen. The French government conferred the Ordre National de la Légion d’Honneur on Rupert in 2009. "As  per today, the French authorities have no comment to make on this matter," said the French Embassy in its response. Meanwhile, the Black Business Federation has called for the inclusion of small businesses in the vaccine roll-out. Spokesperson Sifiso Shezi said the federation's members could play a key role in the roll-out. "We have members involved in transportation and logistics, security and warehousing. These are some of the areas where their services could be utilised. The government should look at the entire value chain of the vaccine roll-out and exercise fairness, " Shezi said. Following the recent scandals in the procurement of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) that rocked the country, Shezi said it was important for the government to be transparent in how the roll-out would be carried out "Some conglomerates were used to supply sanitisers to schools, yet there are local small and medium enterprises available to provide the service. The government has an obligation to support and grow SMMEs," said Shezi He said that Covid-19-related procurement could serve as a "shock absorber" to the SMMEs, which were struggling under the current economic climate. 