By Keagan Mitchell, Norman Cloete, Samkelo Mtshali and Sameer Naik Cape Town - Unions have slammed the government for its decision to have teachers return to school early.  This after Deputy Minister Reginah Mhaule said their decision was taken after consultation with education stakeholders who were all “united”. On Friday, the national department announced that schools would only resume February 15. Teacher unions and education experts agreed with the decision, but expressed concern about teachers returning January 25. Cynthia Barnes, general secretary for the National Teachers’ Union (Natu), said they are grateful that schools will open later but not happy with the decision of teachers starting in the final week of January. “Reasons being there are those coming from marking centres, and their status is not known. It might happen that some are infected with the virus, and those that remained home are not safe. The ones coming back from marking venues must isolate themselves for 10 days and be certain that they are clean before going to schools.” Executive director for the National Professional Teachers’ Organisation of South Africa (Naptosa), Basil Manuel said scientists told them it would be an unwise decision to open schools around January 27. “We’ve agreed that the 15th will represent a date by which we all think the peak of the pandemic would have passed. However, we are a little confused on why teachers would go in on the 25th and first respectively. Are teachers then not susceptible to the virus? What will they be doing then? Preparations for 2021 had to be completed in 2020. The return of teachers was meant to be on the next agenda for discussion with the unions,” he said. Stellenbosch University professor, Jonathan Jansen, said: “This is a good decision, given the spike in infections. We have enough time to reschedule the academic year, but the key is to work towards a downward trend (bending the curve) in infections. Otherwise, the postponement will mean little.” Western Cape Education MEC, Debbie Schäfer, said: “There is no question that in many areas hospitals are overloaded because of the number of Covid-19 cases, and that the situation we face is a difficult one. However, it is not clear that a two-week delay will find us in a vastly different situation to the current one. We would have preferred a differentiated approach, as not all provinces are affected the same or at the same time. We are very concerned at the effect of another delay on the long-term education of our pupils and on parents who are trying to work.” The MEC’s spokesperson, Bronagh Hammond, said: “The Western Cape Education Department notes the changes made regarding the opening of schools for the 2021 school year. There are still some outstanding matters that need further clarity which we hope to receive through the amended directions to be issued by DBE. These include clarity on the grades returning, the National School Nutrition Programme, comorbidities and others. We await the publishing of these directions, which will determine how we move forward as a province in managing the opening of schools.” In a combined statement, education specialists at UCT, Patti Silbert and Janis Wylie, said: “Children of all ages are not used to social distancing, and in many schools, it has been extremely challenging to ensure that effective social-distancing measures are adhered to. All this has placed huge strain on the schooling system, but more importantly, it exposes children, their families, and teachers to increased risk of community infections. In the light of these challenges, we support the announcement that the opening of schools should be postponed for two weeks. However, what needs to be clarified are the details of how schools which are not Covid-safe will be supported by the Department of Basic Education in the coming months.” Educational psychologist at Pretoria University, Professor Kobus Maree, said it seemed that the decision was a fairly unanimous one, taken in the best interests of all pupils. “While urban schools may have preferred otherwise, understandably, rural and township (less well-resourced) schools are in a particularly vulnerable position, and their safety should override other considerations. All in all, a considered response that I agree with. That said, younger children appear to be less vulnerable, and it may make sense to allow them to return to school earlier than older ones,” Maree said. While public schools were scheduled to reopen on January 27, most private schools had already started their 2021 academic year. Curro spokesperson, Mari Lategan, said: “We noted that the Department of Basic Education’s announcement yesterday regarding the closing of all schools, was not clear, in terms of independent schools. We, and as far as we understand, the National Alliance of Independent School Associations (Naisa) and the  Independent Schools Association of Southern Africa (Isasa), are currently trying to obtain further clarity on the matter. We await further communication in this regard. Throughout the pandemic, Curro has complied with legislation and prioritised the health of our pupils and staff who remain our utmost priority, and will continue to do so alongside our strict standard operating procedure.” Weekend Argus