checked - W THE backlog for toilets required by 106 schools in the province stands at 750 while another 190 schools need 589 classrooms. And the dwindling budget allocations to fund school infrastructure projects means many of these issues will continue to pile up as provincial departments struggle with budget cuts. Responding to a written question from ANC MPL Khalid Sayed on the compliance levels of schools in the province to infrastructure levels, MEC for Education Debbie Schafer outlined eight categories with backlogs from 2014 as well as 2020. On sanitation, the  backlogs at schools has increased from 746 toilets at 96 schools to 750 toilets needed at 106 schools. The metro’s four districts contributed the highest backlog at 247 toilets across 34 schools followed by Cape Winelands at 210 toilets at 25 schools. “A special internal investigation into the state of water supply and services at schools in the Western Cape in 2019 found that schools in the Western Cape generally have more ablution facilities than is prescribed by the regulations,” read Schafer’s response. “Unfortunately, the surpluses at relatively newer schools do not compensate for the under-supply of facilities at other schools. The under-supply of ablution facilities needs to be addressed on a case by case basis. “Learner population growth in the province, resulting in higher enrolment counts at schools, puts sustained pressure on the number of ablution facilities to be added.” Equal Education’s Development and Research Co-ordinator  Rone McFarlane said the consequence of infrastructure backlogs in urban provinces was overcrowding  in classes and not enough toilets. “In Gauteng and the Western Cape this overcrowding leads to the deterioration of toilet conditions fairly quickly. In some schools you have ridiculous learner to toilet ratios and the schools can’t keep up with the required maintenance,” she said. “So you often find whereas in rural provinces we have the problems of learners using unacceptable pit toilets, in urban provinces you have built toilets which should be adequate but because of the deterioration and conditions of toilets they are in a bad condition to be exposing learners to. These are toilets that don’t flush, many don’t have a door anymore.” Outlined in the response are also challenges in terms of classroom backlogs, which ballooned from 149 classrooms across 53 schools in 2014 to 589 classrooms at 190 schools. And with schools due to reopen in just a few weeks, the age-old issue of unplaced pupils will once again rear its head. Earlier this month the department said enrolments at provincial schools increased by an average of 18 248 each year since 2012. By January 30,  last year over 6 000 learners had still not been placed. The response goes on to highlight the ageing school infrastructure in the province. * Five in every seven schools in the Western Cape are said to have been built more than 30 years ago and are reaching the end of their original design lifetime. * As many as 300 schools (approximately 20% of total schools) were built before 1960 and while they have a heritage profile, they are past their design lives and are suffering severe deterioration of material used to build them. *Another 750 schools (which accounts for 53% of schools) were built between 1965 and 1994 and were built with either fully or partially inappropriate materials such as wood or asbestos. “School infrastructure is not being developed to evolve sustainably over the long term.  The cost of eliminating schools built in full or in part of inappropriate materials does not include the costs to improve the condition of school infrastructure components that are in a state of disrepair at other schools as a result of overcrowding, lack of maintenance, vandalism or general wear and tear, which would additionally limit compliance with minimum norms and standards,” said Schafer. “The increased demand for services against the backdrop of ever-diminishing budgets causes a short term versus long term planning dilemma for school infrastructure.” According to the department, its annual maintenance budget deficit continues to grow year-on-year and contributes to a separate maintenance backlog which, based on figures from the last three financial years, stood at R 900 million. McFarlane said budget cuts like the nearly R2 billion slashed from infrastructure grants to fund Covid-19 relief efforts, would be a further setback to much needed projects. For the Western Cape, this meant around over R150 million was cut in infrastructure grants. “In the minister’s (MEC) supplementary budget we saw nearly R2bn was cut from school infrastructure grants which led to 1 938 essential school projects needing to be stopped and delayed, that is almost 2 000 projects,” she said. “They also reprioritised R4bn which then went to Covid-19 temporary relief measures so those backlogs are even a worse problem if you consider the fact that while we face these massive backlogs, government is actually cutting school infrastructure budget which put provincial departments in an impossible position.” The department said around nine school replacements projects are currently in construction stages and are due to be completed in the 2022/2023 financial year. And the backlog in toilets at 72 of the 106 is said to be addressed in the current financial year with the remaining 34 to be addressed in the coming year if the budget allows. 