by Reagan Squire Cape Town - Did you know an English surgeon named Edward Jenner created the world’s first vaccine for smallpox in 1798? Now 224 years later, the world faces a new virus and Jenner’s invention is the world’s latest hope against fighting Covid-19. Coronavirus, comes from the Latin word corona, meaning crown, because under a microscope the virus looks like it is wearing a crown. A virus is a small germ that you are not able to see with your eyes. It makes us sick but is not able to harm us if it does not find another person to live inside (a host). When it was first discovered last year during December in Wuhan, China, it caused a lot of unrest across the globe. But governments, doctors and nurses are working hard to make sure families stay safe during the pandemic. The new vaccine will help them fight the virus from jumping from one person to the next. Making it difficult for it to spread and infect more people. The vaccine that has landed on the shores of South Africa, is called Oxford-AstraZeneca, and is known as the Covishield vaccine. The vaccine was manufactured and shipped by the Serum Institute of India (SII). While addressing the nation earlier this week, President Cyril Ramaphosa said: ‘’Now that the vaccines have arrived, they will be tested and after testing, they will be distributed across the country to thousands of our healthcare workers who every day put their own lives at risk to save others.’’ The vaccine will be given to patients by harmless needles in the upper region of the arm. This will be done in two doses, the second which will take place after a period of 4-12 weeks. The 1 million doses South Africa received will be given to nurses and doctors. The rest of the country will receive the vaccine from later this month. What you can do to help to stop the virus is by continuing to wash your hands for at least 20 seconds. ’’The Covid-19 outbreak has overly emphasised the importance of handwashing with soap to reduce the spread of the virus,’’ Said Dr Msyamboza from the World Health Organisation. Remember to wash in between your fingers and underneath your fingernails. Another way would be by not touching your face, rubbing your eyes, and putting your hands in your mouth. Weekend Argus