Cape Town - Comparison platform Hippo.co.za has started a community initiative called #MyHippo to assist out-of-work seamstresses in Mitchell’s Plain. The campaign uses the seamstresses to create plush toys of their beloved mascot. “The Covid-19 lockdowns have impacted us severely,” said, Francois De Flamingh, founder of local design studio Creatarium, which contracted the seamstresses to work on the project. “It was especially hard on the seamstresses, who were completely dependent on the film industry for income. This project was incredibly welcome as it enabled the seamstresses to work, and to work safely from home.” The mascot, which is much loved by the comparison platform’s followers on social media and consumers, created a demand for the plush toy. The South African brand which is high on community engagement, found an effective way to support locals after the effects of the pandemic. “There were also many requests for a toy, so the next logical step was to give people their personal toy as a reminder to make good choices,” said chief executive Bradley Du Chenne. Due to the overwhelmingly positive response to the plush toy, it led to the second round of orders, for another 1 000 toys. Which created more work for the women. Du Chenne said: “It would certainly have been more cost-effective to outsource the creation of these toys to an international manufacturer, but this project was not a profit-making exercise. We want to spread brand love, not only to our consumers who have shown interest in our Hippo character, but also to local businesses who need the support in this difficult time. The intention is certainly to keep supporting local in everything we do”.  Hazel Adams, who has benefited from the initiative, said: “It made a huge difference.” She and the rest of the seamstresses, who are pensioners, were previously employed by the movie industry and were left jobless with the restrictions that came with lockdown. “With the help of Hippo, these little hippos really put food on our tables,’’ said Adams. Adams, who contracted the virus herself during the first wave, thought she was going to die. She went into a coma thrice, which resulted in her being hospitalised for five weeks. Adams and her fellow seamstresses are proud of their work and said: “People will look through the window while we’re making the hippos, and they say, ‘can I have one of those?’ The toys are handmade, so each one is unique.” Everything from the materials to the seamstresses are local. The company plans on furthering their attempts to better the lives of South Africans. ‘’The project allows us to do that, not only for consumers, but also for small businesses and the seamstresses who have been impacted by Covid-19. This is not just a passion project for us. Empowering others is part of our brand ethos.” said Du Chenne.