Cape Town - Heartache has turned into hope for Lesley Achilles. The Brackenfell resident recently published her first book, behind it all, which started out as a blog. The book tells the story of how lucky Achilles had never had to deal with the loss of a loved one. However, she was faced with the cold knock of death at her door after losing her life partner in a motor vehicle accident in 2016. The book explains Achilles’s thoughts and emotions and the struggle to find a reason to further pursue life. She had to figure out who she was because the life she planned with the man she loved was abruptly taken away. It is about how it is absolutely okay to grieve and let herself feel each of those heartbreaking emotions to be able to heal. Achilles said it was never her plan to write a book, but she found it much easier than having to talk and open up to someone. “The main reason I decided to share my journey is the hope that it may help someone suffering a loss feel less alone. To grieve is awfully lonely and extremely confusing. It may sound strange, but you find yourself wondering if you are doing right. “Grief is also something people don’t talk about, so you find yourself withdrawing or others avoid you. Not because they don’t want to be there for you, they just don’t know how to act around you. My hope is that someone would read my book and see that what they are going through is normal and that in time, they will be okay again.” She described her late partner as funny, but also serious. “He was always thinking, planning, figuring out his next step. He would walk into a room and take in everything, nothing got by him. He was a devoted son and his family meant the world to him. He was a good man. “We had an honest relationship. I’d always say that we had the most real relationship because we could have tough conversations. One thing we did well was laugh together. We were content spending the weekend in our flat and chilling in front of the television,” said Achilles, whose motivation in life is to find the purpose God designed for her. “While I am being prepared for that purpose, my hope is to live each day the best that I can. To accept something, we need to fully understand it. Since we do not see the other side of death, the unknown haunts and robs us of finding peace. For me, acceptance came when I found my way back to the church and to God.” She was born in Cape Town and grew up in Saldanha Bay on the West Coast. She moved back in her early 20s in search of a job after realising the West Coast offered limited opportunities to secure her future. She has been working in the wine industry for 17 years. Her book, behind it all, costs R200 and can be bought online.