The lockdown may have pulled the brakes on many businesses but for the owner of a take-me-home cab service, it meant quick thinking to ensure her business could make a U-turn. Wafiqah Osman-Fisher described herself as a mum first and then a businesswoman – her business Sober Soldiers reflects this duality. She described it as a community project, but a profitable business that was growing from strength to strength. Osman-Fisher said: “I have had multiple businesses before but in different industries and this is my first business in the transport industry. However, I have worked in the transport industry.” Her work and personal experience led her to starting her business. “Sober Soldiers is a take-me-home service. I started it particularly with women in mind. With so many e-hailing services not really being safe for women, I wanted to somehow bridge that gap, so that women can feel free and liberated to go out without having to worry about how are we going to get home or someone can’t drink because we need a designated driver.” She is based in District Six where she lives and operates the business across Cape Town. It functions as a ride-home service, an errand service and cab service to destinations. “I own a few vehicles myself. How it works is, we collect the client in their own vehicle, and we have shadow vehicles. Each team consists of two people, a driver and a shadow driver. So the client gets taken home in their own vehicle.” Her business was up and running by November 2019, and the festive season trade was good. Osman-Fisher said: “Because we had just come out of the festive season, (the business) was somewhat at a peak because the festive season was really busy. And then suddenly, everyone's lives changed when we went into level 5 lockdown. It became really difficult because I did employ four employees. I still had them to take care of them when lockdown hit.” She had built up a client base and soon used it to her advantage to keep Sober Soldiers' wheels turning: “I had to diversify at the time, so we did people’s shopping as well as taking them to hospital appointments throughout lockdown. It was like an errand service, I was able to adapt the business and we needed to think really fast to sustain our business. It really worked well simply because people really needed the service.” She added: “There were other businesses that popped up but because people knew us already and trusted us we rode the momentum we built up.” Her business has grown since and she has doubled her staff compliment from four to eight. Osman Fisher said she was constantly looking at ways to improve the business and build on her success: “My entire business is currently run on Whatsapp. I‘ve done some research with my clients and they actually prefer Whatsapp, simply because it’s an app they already have. Because it’s something they already have, right now they would prefer to not download another app.” She is proud of her achievements thus far: “We have grown a little bit which is great because I now feed more families. This is somewhat of a community project because it’s either someone from my community or people that I know have lost their jobs as drivers.” Part of her expansion plans is to grow the business reach in the future and specifically tap into the coloured and black markets where take-me-home and e-hailing services are not that popular. Her aim is to become Cape Town’s go to service provider for getting you to and from your destination with no fuss and at a good price.