Checked - W Cape Town business woman Shireen Buckley is a seasoned human resources professional  with nearly two decades experience under her belt. In 2018 she ditched her full time job to started her business Consulting Shireen. So when the Covid-19 pandemic hit the country and laid waste to the local economy affecting most businesses,  Buckley used her experience to respond to the changes and helped others seeking to adapt to the new business climate. She said: “I was as an HR exec for a financial services organisation. I’d say that I was on quite a successful trajectory, climbing the corporate ladder. But I reached a crossroads in my career where I was searching to do more meaningful work and something that could contribute and impact others in a way that I felt I could make a difference.” This became even more crucial to her clients when the lockdown began in March. Buckley said: “Because lockdown came with its challenges, people’s financial circumstances were different – people were holding on to the jobs that they had and weren’t really keen to make a move or to grow their career.” She added: “The challenge I experienced was that there was an affordability and even accessibility concern and so that propelled me to launch my first group coaching programme. So instead of a one-to-one I could definitely have a more cost effective one-to-many module that could support people in their challenges.” Her group sessions were a success; she formulated it in such a way that it motivated people to not lose hope in the face of so much uncertainty. She said the scope was broad: “The first group coaching programme was specifically for people who had lost their jobs due to Covid-19 or were placed on short time, or had to just pivot their career all together. If you met any of those requirements you could be part of the programme; I was willing to walk that journey with those people.” The sessions were scheduled for 8am on a Monday morning. The timing had a purpose as Buckley wanted her clients to be focused and ready to step confidently into the the start of the week. She said she draws on all of her experience: “I have been on both sides of HR and I have been both an applicant and a hiring manager. Seeing those challenges on both sides I have identified that there is a big need and a big struggle.” Buckley added: “I had done several courses to contribute to my coaching development skills, not just leadership qualifications, but my history, background, career path and of course the coaching courses that I have done, sufficiently equipped me on how to support people better and coach them within their careers.” There was one significant factor that she was always mindful of and said in the midst of the pandemic, it had become even more important: “People’s identity is definitely closely linked to their profession. So when they don’t have that, it makes up such a huge part of their lives that it's the loss of not just the financial security but also social status.” There were two main aspects she focused on with her clients: “Firstly, it’s about branding, so your online presence goes beyond a LinkedIn profile. Secondly, it’s about your networking capabilities and skills. “Now we don’t go to those conferences, we don’t go to those socials, we don’t even get to go to the water cooler where you might see the MD and have a little casual chat or even your line-manager.” For the future of her business, Buckley wants to expand her offering from coaching those in the corporate world to people overlooked in what might be described as blue collar industries. She said she wanted to branch out possibly into human resource departments where much-needed career coaching was often sacrificed. Buckley is excited about the changes in the workforce and believes the future of career coaching is going to be crucial for people navigating the changes in formal employment. 