Cape Town - It’s been said that your wardrobe speaks volumes about your personality – so adding Boineelo Modise's latest design  to your wardrobe could make a powerful statement. The Be The Change T-shirt range was designed by the artist, graphic designer and marketing strategist. It’s part of retail store Markham’s campaign to combat gender-based violence (GBV) with proceeds of the T-shirt sales going to gender advocacy and rights group Sonke Gender Justice. With every T-shirt sold, R86 of the R140 goes to a non-profit organisation and this month the Sonke Gender Justice team received R500 000. Now living and working in Cape Town, Modise was born and raised in the village of Dry Harts, just outside Taung in the North-West. It was here that she drew part of the inspiration for the design of the T-shirts. “Where I’m from, my neighbour used to abuse this woman really bad and it was a consistent. At one point I even told the police about it and they did nothing, they just let the guy go,” she said. Witnessing this act of violence and her love for line art that also motivated her to keep the designs simple and only in black in white. “This is actually a first for me, designing an item of clothing,” said Modise. Her impact designs are part of the retailer’s Help Don’t Harm initiative. While Modise and her family back home are beaming with pride because her handiwork is on store shelves, it’s ultimately the team at Sonke who are most appreciative of the success of the T-shirt campaign. Often people hear about and see the work done by charity groups and non-profit organisations but are at a loss on how they can assist. This campaign was just one way for people to help the team at Sonke Gender Justice continue their work across South Africa and Africa. Cape Town co-executive director for Sonke Gender Justice Bafana Khumalo said: “We thank the Markham team profusely for their generous contribution to our foundation. Not only will it help us financially to continue our work in the community, but this initiative has helped raise awareness amongst the men of our country about the important role they play as role models to other men”. Weekend Argus