Seven months after the Rail Enforcement Unit (REU)  was withdrawn, there's been no indication of whether funding would be made available to bring it back to safeguard Metrorail's assets. Metrorail said it had received no word from its parent body, the Passenger Rail Agency of South Africa (Prasa) of whether there was funding available to resuscitate the project. The unit became operational in October  2018 with the City of Cape Town, the provincial government and Prasa each pouring R16 million each to the project. The unit was set up during the height of sustained arson and vandalism attacks on the  rail service, regarded as the backbone and most cost-effective form of public transport. The attacks saw several train coaches set alight, some at the Cape Town station. Metrorail spokesperson Riana Scott said funding for regional projects was provided by Prasa and the region had not received any indication whether there was funding to resuscitate the project. Mayco member for Transport Felicity Purchase also said  to date Prasa had "failed to provide a formal letter to confirm a financial commitment and contribution from their side". Purchase said the passenger rail infrastructure was now being subjected to ongoing vandalism and theft on a daily basis and no arrests had been made. Purchase added that the service had "deteriorated substantially" since the resumption under Alert Level 3 of the national lockdown. Scott said Metrorail continued to provide limited train services from Cape Town to Retreat via Heathfield, servicing the Cape Flats and from Retreat to Fish Hoek with a shuttle service to Simon’s Town in the south. In the north, services were available to Malmesbury and Kraaifontein. A carriage caught fire near Akasia Park this week, disrupting the train service. But the service was restored a few hours later. Scott said plans were in progress to resume the service to Stellenbosch/Eerste River and Strand lines. However, the plans depended on repairs and reinstatement of infrastructure damaged during hard lock-down. Regarding the busiest line which services Khayelitsha and Mitchells Plain - the line remained suspended until "the infrastructure could safely accommodate trains and stations were repaired to accommodate commuters," said Scott. "Prasa intends to  start the repair works in the next few months so that train services can be reinstated on the Central Line by the end of 2021. However, infrastructure works cannot start in the areas where there are illegal land invasions and illegal settlements," she said. Trains would start operating  between Langa and Cape Town with limited service from tomorrow (February 15) during weekdays only. Scott said only one line would be available for operations and six trains would with stops at Ysterplaat, Mutual and Langa. However the decision not to bring back the unit also received flak from organised labour. "We are disappointed and shocked to hear that there's no funding yet for the REU. This would be yet another blow to efforts to combat vandalism and infrastructure theft on our rail lines," said spokesperson for the United National Transport Union (Untu) Sonja Carstens. Carstens said none of the comprehensive safety protection plans announced last year were operational. "We have not seen any drones, we have not seen any armed forces response and the co-operation of the Rapid Rail unit that lacks the resources. The sad reality is that there's no political will to restore the services properly and do anything about the infrastructure. We only have lip service," Carstens said. In a statement last year, the City listed achievements of the safety project  up to June 30 last year and these included over  more than 4 000 patrols conducted in hotspot areas and 424 arrests of suspects. The unit also recovered over 2 000m of stolen copper and aluminium cables and confiscated equipment used for vandalising and stealing rail infrastructure. "All that needs to be done is for an agreement to be signed to co-share the funding to protect their operations, and thereby serve the commuters of Cape Town," Purchase said. 