The top 30 contestants for the Miss South Africa pageant have been announced, and seven of the entrants are from the Western Cape. Among them is Jamie Cloete, a 23-year-old geographical and environmental scientist, from Edgemead. Cloete said she was over the moon for having made it to the top 30. “I couldn’t stop screaming when I found out. Entering Miss SA has always been a dream of mine, and now it is my reality,” she said. She added: “I remember watching these brave and strong women speak so passionately about what matters to them. This year, I felt that I was ready to be brave and live my purpose.” Cloete has a bachelor of social science degree from UCT and majored in environmental and geographical science and psychology in 2019. In addition to this, she graduated with her honours degree in environmental and geographical studies at Stellenbosch University. She is completing her accreditation with the Green Building Council of South Africa. “Once I’ve completed this course, I’ll be able to certify buildings as being green,” she said. She plans to work as a sustainability consultant. “I want to be able to advise businesses how to become more socially and environmentally responsible.” Cloete said her passion for the environment came from completing her honours thesis on water management strategies in guest houses. “It was interesting for me to see how a business was able to adapt to the drought. It sparked the interest for environmental sustainability within me because I want to improve sustainability,” she said. Cloete added: “The way that we look after our environment will improve our economy, but also improve livelihoods. That way, people have access to basic human needs of water, sanitation and food.” Cloete said that she would love to meet the Minister of Environmental Affairs Barbara Creecy. “I want to discuss environmental challenges and how to create a sustainable difference. We can share ideas on what sustainable initiatives we can  put in place to protect our environment and look after our country.” The public can now vote towards selecting the top 10 finalists for the Miss South Africa pageant. Votes close at midnight on Wednesday, July 21. See www.misssa.co.za Weekend Argus