 The Cape Town bodyboarding team has been selected to participate in the national championships and team leader Aden Kleve is looking forward to leading the Mother City to victory. A team of 25 bodyboarders have been selected to represent Cape Town, and Kleve sees it as a great honour to represent the province. “I am ecstatic because bodyboarding is my life. “Making the team, the bonds we build and training for the championship together is an awesome experience and a great learning experience. “One of the biggest highlights for me is being able to help the younger generation grow in the sport. “When I first made the team, I was 12 years old. “I looked up to a lot of my team members, and now I understand the value that they played in my life." Kleve, 29, grew up in Kommetjie, where he started bodyboarding as an extramural. “We lived a stone’s throw away from the beach and spent most of our days there, just splashing around. “My dad also bodyboarded, and that’s why he got us into the sport,” he said. In 2015, the National Sea Rescue Institute awarded Kleve a certificate of recognition for saving a man’s life while he was out bodyboarding. “The guy was caught in a wave and had gotten concussed underwater. “I managed to get him onto my board and catch a wave to get us back to shore,” he said. Kleve said bodyboarding is a practical tool to rescue someone. “After years of messing around with my brother as two people on one board, I managed to bring him safely back to shore,” he said. Over the last 17 years of his bodyboarding career, Kleve garnered ten awards, seven of which are for first place. Some of his awards include the Kumba West Coast classic dropknee division and the International Bodyboarding Association (IBA), also in the dropknee division. The main challenge that Kleve faced in the sport, was to get sponsored for international trips when he had to travel to compete. “Finding a sponsor was quite difficult and came down to hard work. “It meant working hard enough to get your talent recognised and your goals supported,” Kleve said. The Fishman Trophy is an award that goes to the team that wins the South African championships. The Western Province has only won this award twice – in 1991 and 2018. “We always look forward to the camaraderie at nationals, but we also want to try our very best to win the Fishman Trophy this year,” Kleve said. The Cape Town bodyboarding team will head to West Beach in Port Alfred to compete in the South African championships taking place October 2–5. 