The life-changing work with youngsters at a foundation named after the American student Amy Biehl, killed while she was trying to making a difference in South Africa, resulted in a book about the hope which emerged from the tragedy. The Amy Foundation, formerly known as the Amy Biehl Foundation, has launched a book titled, Step by Step – The Resilient Youth of the Amy Foundation,  penned by Marchien Timmerman, who heads the department of theology at Windesheim University, in the Netherlands. Timmerman was inspired by how the foundation continued to change lives through education, skills and creating a generation of determined self-starters In 1993  Biehl was killed during political mob violence in the Gugulethu. Four young men were convicted of her murder, and after spending five years in prison were granted amnesty by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. Her parents Linda and Peter started the foundation to help young people in poor areas. Timmerman visited Cape Town in 2015 and spent three weeks volunteering at the foundation. She was impressed by the work she observed. “I could have stayed anywhere but I wanted to live somewhere that allowed me to have close contact with the students, join the activities and be present,” she said. She added: “I observed their behaviours and method of working in that time, especially within their youth skills movement.” Timmerman said she loved the stories that emerged from the youngsters in the youth skills development programme. The author added that she realised the positive impact the foundation’s work has had on many young people. “I created Step by Step from a human interest perspective that would allow others to see the impact education has had in the lives of these young people.” The foundation, a non profit, works with underprivileged pupils from vulnerable areas in Cape Town to provide them with opportunities. The organisation runs an after school programme for children aged five to 18 and a youth skills development programme for young people aged 18–35. Megan Lambert, 22, from Westridge in Mitchells Plain whose story is featured in Step by Step started as a volunteer at  the foundation in 2017 and now works as an admin assistant in their youth skills development programme. After leaving school, Lambert decided to take a gap year. “I had no career guidance after I matriculated. “I thought that a gap year would be the best option to decide what to do.” In May 2017, she joined  the foundation’s after school programme at Mimosa Primary in Bonteheuwel. She assisted primary school children with their homework for three months before she became a hospitality student, which formed part of their youth skills development programme. “The Amy foundation paid for me to complete a one year course in generic management at DYNA Training. “If it had not been for the training, I would not have had my job as admin assistant today.” When she first joined the foundation, Lambert was experiencing family difficulties that made her doubt her self-worth. “This place taught me how to deal with what I was facing in my life. “They sent me on a course that helped boost my self-esteem and taught me how to process what I went through,” she said. She added: “I learned that no matter what I am going through, it is not the end of the world and nothing is impossible. Lambert said that it makes her emotional thinking of how much her life has changed since joining the foundation. “Before I joined the foundation, I had no hope in my future and thought that nothing could go right in my life, She added: “Today I am confident and I can stand with my head held high. “I feel unstoppable. Each day is a learning curve and I am hopeful for the future.” All profits from book sales will go towards funding for the foundation. The book can be purchased for R75, via email from Michelle Bagley: Michelle@amyfoundation.co.za