The Santa Shoebox Legacy Project has funded the creation of 25 reading hubs at Early Childhood Development Centres (ECDs) in the Samora Machel township. The Legacy project facilitates upliftment projects in disadvantaged areas. The Santa Shoebox Project collects and distributes personalised gifts of essential items and treats for underprivileged children throughout South Africa and Namibia. Local singer and storyteller Zolani Mahola has endorsed the Legacy project and visited preschools in Samora Machel. While there, she read to the children and addressed the caregivers. “The building blocks of a child's development start here, the story of a healthy child starts right here,” she said. Mahola added: “I am blessed to be here supporting this project of the reading corners, of widening a child's reading world.” In addition to the reading hubs, the Santa Shoebox Legacy project has raised money to cover anti-bullying training for facilitators at schools. Four years ago, the project decided to embark on a journey of reaching one million children, and that once they reached that goal, they would do something significant to celebrate it. “We provided 25 ECDs with shelves filled with age-appropriate books, carpets, a few cushions and a bench,” Chief executive of the Santa Shoebox Project Debbie Zelezniak said. Since its inception in 2006, the project reached a total of one million children receiving donations, last year. This year, they launched their #beyondthemillion campaign as they aim to continue touching the lives of many young children. Zelezniak said: “Our virtual shoebox options enables supporters who live out of the country to donate a shoebox to a child in need. This helps us further reach more children in remote rural areas.” She said  children in poor areas deserve what children of means have access to. “Underprivileged children are often not acknowledged for their full potential. Just because a child is living in economically challenging circumstances does not mean they cannot be the next astronaut or pilot,” she said. She added: “The Santa Shoebox Project wants to give each child a sense of belonging, and show them that they are appreciated while boosting their self-confidence.” Weekend Argus 