A second small West Coast town has been hit with a wave of coronavirus infections after 57 residents in Doringbaai tested positive for Covid-19 in three days. On Thursday Gift of the Givers visited the area to drop off supplies. “This fishing community has been decimated with job losses and unemployment. Fishing, which is the main means of income for 80% of the 500 families, has not yielded good catched in the last six months,” said the organization's Imtiaz Sooliman. “Gift of the Givers are distributing food parcels, hygiene packs, bottled water, Covid-19 pacs, blankets and bulk food.” Western Cape Head of Health Dr Keith Cloete said during the province’s weekly briefing on Covid-19 that rural communities in the Western Cape had recorded a 63% week-on-week increase in cases compared to 44% in the metro. The West Coast town with a population of at least 1 300 has 57 people test positive in three days. According to the province’s Covid-19 dashboard, Matzikama currently has 134 active cases which means Doringbaai accounts for 42% of infections in the municipality. Located two hours away from Kliprand, which was placed in quarantine two weeks ago following an outbreak of their own, Doringbaai has received donations for its residents. Co-ordinator of the Covid-19 Task Team at the Matzikama Municipality Ruben Saul said after an infection in one household spread, a decision was taken to test residents on Monday which yielded three positive cases. “A decision was taken together with the Department of Health to conduct an operation where the department requested the municipality to avail a hall to conduct screenings,” he said. “And of the 477 that were screened, 175 tests were conducted and that saw 44 people test positive over a two-day period.The department returned again on Wednesday as it was one of two days in the week the mobile clinic operated in the area and continued with screening which resulted in another 11 people testing positive. “All in all 57 people tested positive in three days. We have activated a response team from our side. Five people from the area have been moved to an isolation site and only one person is an acute case and was referred to Vredendal Hospital.” Spokesperson for the Health Department in the West Coast Leensie Lötter confirmed that 57 people tested positive this week. “No patients are severely sick at this stage. Contact tracing in the community has been done while the screening and testing took place and the situation is monitored closely by the Matzikama Health management team,” she said. Saul said while the people of Doringbaai were not under any restrictions, humanitarian aid was being provided to the 1 300 residents from Gift of the Givers while some leftover disinfectant supplies were retrieved from Kliprand to assist the community. Weekend Argus