Cape Town - New South African horse racing operator 4Racing have announced their chief executive at their official launch on Saturday. Fundi Sithebe was announced as the chief executive of 4Racing at a champions day event at Turffontein Racecourse in Gauteng. The announcement was made at the official launch of the 4Racing brand. 4Racing has been established with the aim of stabilising, protecting, and “radically transforming the horse racing industry” at every single level. They aim to create benefit all stakeholders, starting with the workforce of racing. Sithebe holds a Bachelor of Business Administration from Midrand University and a Post Graduate Diploma in Management (Business Administration) from Wits Business School. “I am very excited to have been presented with this opportunity and I look forward to engaging with all the stakeholders as 4Racing proceeds with the vital transformation and rebuilding of the South African horse racing industry,” said Fundi. She started her career as a management consultant at Deloitte, focusing on the areas of strategy and operations in organisational strategic projects. She was part of the expansion team for First National Bank that was responsible for the establishment of operations in Africa. Fundi was previously the chief operating officer of Airports Company South Africa, from December 2017 until her departure on 30 April 2021, responsible for the integration and seamless operations across the network of nine airports. In addition, she led the commercial division, which is mainly responsible for non-aeronautical revenue. Her passion for the aviation industry was sparked in 2003 when she obtained her private pilot's licence. Chairperson Mxolisi Zwane said he was delighted to welcome Fundi into her new portfolio at 4Racing. “While her recent background has been in the aviation industry, Fundi has an excellent track record in the business world and has the ability to help restore South African horse racing to its former glory. She understands the vision we have for the racing industry.” Fundi added: “I was very pleased with the news of the approval of the transaction from the Competition Commission. Now focus will be on attaining all the necessary licensing from the Gambling Boards. There is still plenty of work to be done, but 4Racing is optimistic that the necessary pieces will start falling into place.” A key objective of 4Racing in the short term is the digital transformation of the industry as they seek to elevate South African racing, not only to improve the experience for existing participants, but to attract a whole new audience.