DESPITE having spent R44 million on two contractors to build houses in the Mau-Mau development in Nyanga the Department of Human Settlements now seeks a third contractor to complete the unfinished project. Cash-strapped contractors abandoned half-finished building sites, delays, illegal occupation of houses and stolen material are just a few of the problems plaguing the development. The project which started in January 2018 was estimated to have completed the construction of 455 units in 15 months. But is now estimated to be completed in August  2022, three years after the first completion date provided. Constructed in two phases, the development now sits with 368 units that are still under construction of which 229  are at roof-level. After three years, only 74 units have been handed over. MEC for Human Settlements Tertius Simmers responded to a written question in the Western Cape Legislature on the progress of the development. He said of the two contractors initially employed,  Khetwayo Construction and Siqu, only one remains on site after Khetwayo was dismissed. Both companies faced  cash-flow challenges that impact on their performance. Siqu was subsequently issued with penalties for not delivering on the due date, February 5. Spokesperson for the Department of Human Settlements Muneera Allie said the department had spent just more than R44m on both contractors. Simmers said  360 units still needed to be completed and that the only contractor still left was facing financial difficulties. “Siqu Construction is experiencing chronic cash flow problems, construction material shortages due to Covid, community unrest, theft and  vandalism,” he said. “Khetwayo Construction’s contract was terminated due to slow performance. Khetwayo’s termination was due to non-performance, having abandoned the site (they never returned to site after the December -2019 builder’s break), chronic cash flow problems, not having paid their subcontractors/suppliers and other service providers.” “The current proposal is to advertise via a Limited Bid Process to appoint a suitably qualified building contractor from a predetermined list of pre-qualifying contractors registered on the Western Cape Supplier’s Database (WCSD). “In order to recommence with a new sub-contractor, we would have to go through the limited bid process. “If accepted, it will take approximately eight weeks to appoint a new contractor. “ Therefore, a new contractor can be expected, soonest, by mid-July 2021.” Meanwhile, despite the number of handed over houses being low, people continue to live in the units. Walking through the site the contrast between the completed and the unfinished buildings is glaring. Empty bottles litter some of the units where grass is growing and so are the signs of neglect. But further down the road, while littered in dump materials, white curtains hang in windows and people go about their daily lives, despite occupying the units illegally. Last year the City’s mayoral committee member for human settlements, Malusi Booi condemned rampant invasion of units. In January of 2020, 57 of the 91 completed units had reportedly been temporarily occupied and by July  another 19 units were occupied. Community liaison officer at the site  Nangamso Kwayi said a decision was taken to let beneficiaries “temporarily” occupy their houses as a means of guarding them to ward off vandals and illegal invaders. “The main problem here is money, (Siqu) has invoices from last year that are yet to be paid but despite that work is carrying on. “Whenever there is money available the company purchases what is needed and the workers get on with it. “The reason this project is stalling is because of the slow process in inspections of completed houses and the fussing over small details in completed houses. “Houses that were completed in 2019 were only inspected this year, so this shows you the slow pace. “But there are people living in their houses even though they have not been officially handed over, we took this decision in December when we were on break that a beneficiary must look after their own homes to stop people from invading it.” Monde Nzule, 46, a security guard at the site said they were constantly chasing vagrants away from the site and apprehending those trying to steal material. “We started patrolling in February. “In broad daylight there are homeless people trying to move into the unfinished units, people doing drugs and some couples engaging in intercourse. “Twice we’ve caught the same person stealing material. “Those are the biggest challenges here. “Empty structures attract all sorts of people and not all of them with good intentions. “These houses have been standing like this for a long time and it’s time this development gets finished and the owners can move in.” 