YOUNG chefs from culinary schools in the province are participating in an intense  programme that will culminate in a competition with the winner being sent to France for an internship. The One&Only Cape Town is hosting the 11th annual Reaching for Young Stars  workshop, ahead of the cook-off, service presentation, and awards dinner in July. The programme kicked-off with a launch workshop this week where aspirant chefs attended a programme with several local food companies. In addition, they received training on how to present themselves professionally. Seven culinary and hospitality academies in the Western Cape were selected for the competition including Capsicum Culinary Studio, Chefs Training and Innovation Academy (CTIA), Eziko cooking and Catering Training Centre, IHT Hotel School, The Cape Town Hotel School, the Hurst Campus and International Hotel School. First-year student at Capsicum Culinary Studio, Imtiyaaz Hart, is overwhelmed and excited to be a part of the programme, saying: “It’s intimidating but it’s exciting as well because we get to meet so many great culinary giants. These initiatives push future chefs to think out of the box and it shows us what is possible for our career.” Miguel Naiker, a student of The International Hotel School, is  delighted to compete with chefs from other culinary schools, and thinks that the Reaching for Young Stars initiative helps boost morale and improve skills. He said: “Events like these can take my career to places I only dreamed of going. I am excited to meet everyone and to absorb as much information as possible.” One&Only General Manager Anne Scott, said the hotel was honoured to be part of the initiative. “This interactive workshop will help the young stars with technical and practical networking skills. Both are critical to developing themselves,” she said. “Upskilling of students is such an integral part of our industry. We look forward to following them and seeing them reach their full potential in the future,“ she added. Hill & Dale winemaker and competition judge Guy Webber, reminded the young chefs that originality and authenticity were important. Showcook.com business partners and event organisers, Anette Kesler and Chania Morritt-Smith, are focused on young people and their future in the hospitality industry. Morritt-Smith said that it was about inspiring others to achieve success. “The opportunities given through the programs that we offer is to meet South Africa’s goal in offering excellent hospitality.” She added: “We know that the hospitality industry hasn’t had the easiest time over the last 18 months and we are enthusiastic to provide them with the opportunity to learn and grow. Kesler said: “At the workshop, we aim to broaden minds, give the tools to fuel ambition and the ability to reach out with more confidence. We offer a space where they meet South Africa’s top entrepreneurs in their field - those who have made a dream into a reality.’’ A variety of awards and prizes will be presented at a gala ceremony including a three-week internship at a secret destination to be announced at the event, and a three-month internship in France. The cook-off and service presentation competition is set to happen on July 3, and the gala awards ceremony will take place on July 27. 