Cape Town - At first, opening a high-quality shisanyama establishment  in the heart of Cape Town began as a joke among three Cape Peninsula University of Technology students. However, when the young entrepreneurs combined their insights, aptitude and vision, Urban Tshisanynama was born. Urban Tshisananyama offers a true South African food experience in a sophisticated setting that appreciates the country's diversity without having to travel to the township while supporting the vision of the newly opened hotel, Urban Oasis. With expertise from entrepreneurship to real estate and business management, Aviwe Jacobs and his business partners Phindile May and Mzovuyo Mabandla began their entrepreneurial journey with a common goal – Bring Kasi to Town. Coming from a family of six, Jacobs’ father owned a Tshisanyama business that supported the family. “I have been fortunate enough to have a Tshisanyama background since my father owned one before and wants to own one again in future, which is my motivation to be able to help him one day live his dream because he's been talking about it to me, hence, when I saw the opportunity to create something with my background, I grabbed it with both hands,” said Jacobs. May runs the marketing department of the business, Jacobs and Mabandla focus on the business aspect of the establishment. Tasked with running an actual business, one would assume that their time is tight, but for May, she sets a time and place for everything in her busy schedule. “A typical day for me starts off at work in the morning, normally till 1pm at a real estate company. After work, I relax and socialise with friends or I’m on my social media apps. Later, I am busy with school work. Friday and Saturday I focus on the Tshisanyama and team. There is no day where I can say I am just resting but when I do get that day I sleep as much as I can.” “Our business is unique because it is run by young students who share one vision and goal for the business and it is the first of its kind around the city of Cape Town. We don’t only offer meat but also a good vibe and we are introducing a new lifestyle for all age groups around the city,” said May. When it comes to getting the word out, Mabandla expands on their strengths as a collective in reaching young people around the city. “The three of us each have a strong reach on social media and we are very social. So we have expanded our customer base by promoting not only by word-of-mouth but by social media. What also expanded our customer base is the fact that we also offer a variety of meat from lamb to beef and we also cater for our Halaal customers as well, not forgetting  the efforts Urban Oasis hotel has put in promoting the business and bringing Urban Tshisanyama idea come to life,” said Mabandla. “South Africa’s economy is in such a state where you have to create opportunities for yourself. Depending on the government for work opportunities is the thing of the past. That is exactly what we did and we did not just create jobs for ourselves but as well for our staff (hostesses). Entrepreneurs play a huge role in the country’s economic growth and for up-starting businesses like ours I think investing in them would also help many entrepreneurs to expand and be bigger.” “My advice to young people would be that they don't have to start perfectly. Honestly, if you put that into your mind you will delay yourself. We started off with our monthly allowances and today I can proudly say our business is starting to grow bigger and better. You can do anything that you put your mind to. No matter who you are. I advise a young person to start networking from a very young age. Do not depend on people. Be confident enough in yourself. Surround yourself with people who share the same goal with you but most importantly, surround yourself with people who have more knowledge in other things you don’t know much about,” said May. Urban Oasis owner, Gerhart  Wiencke, said that he is delighted  to see the new venture to the business for their local guests and patrons. “We also cannot wait to introduce this business venture to our overseas guests to add to their Cape Town experience.” “We, for our part, are happy and grateful that we met Aviwe and many of his friends and we are looking forward to many more events that support our quest to become an institution in the heart of the East City,” said Wiencke. Weekend Argus