Hip hop artist Letsopa La Rucca will be hosting Motswako Night, a musical event, on Sunday, endorsed by the Western Cape Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport. The Free State-born artist said that Motswako night is an event that aims to celebrate the diversity of cultures within music. “Everyone comes from different cultures, and we want to celebrate those differences,” he said. The word “motswako“ means mixture in Tswana and the artist believes that it is the ideal name for the event. “We are embracing our own language and culture within music and we believe that it deserves to be celebrated.” Head of communications for the Department of Cultural Affairs and Sport, Tania Colyn, said that Le Rucca had received funding for the event through the Covid-19 gig support relief initiative. “This funding was made available earlier this year to support artists who could not perform live gigs due to the pandemic. We have made this funding available to help the live gig sector recover,” she said. Colyn added that the department supported local artists in growing and showcasing their talent, in an effort to strengthen the industry within the province. “Music, arts and culture bring hope in difficult times and it is important that we support our artists so that they can continue to grow within their respective spaces.” Le Rucca added: “Receiving an endorsement from the department allows independent artists like me to get the resources we would not normally have access to on our own.” A sub-genre of hip hop, motswako (Tswana Rap) has been popularised by artists such as Khuli Chana and Le Rucca believes that younger artists now have a real chance in this industry. Le Rucca, who will be headlining the event, will be joined on stage by fellow hip hop artists King Stabber and G Major O. A live band, Last Sunday Sessions, will also perform throughout the event. “South African hip hop style, artists introduced mixing your mother tongue in hip hop/rap lyrics, which led to the birth of a new sound in South Africa and Botswana.” In support of local businesses, various stalls selling food, drinks and other goods will be available on the day. Le Rucca added: “We want people to come and support the stalls on the day. We are grateful for the opportunity to assist small businesses in making money.” Motswako Night will take on the fourth floor rooftop at 199 Albert Road Woodstock, Cape Town, on Sunday night. Tickets can be bought on Quicket for R60 or at the event on the day for R80. WEEKEND ARGUS