Despite objections by ratepayers, opposition political parties and activist groups, the DA-led City has approved what has been slammed as "exorbitant" municipal tariffs. The City was also warned that the increases, which would come into effect from July 1,  would push the city out of reach of many people. African Christian Democratic Party (ACDP) councillor Grant Haskin said the "exorbitant" increases in rates and services charged to ratepayers this year would make Cape Town an "unaffordable" city to live in. About 70 % of public comments received during the public participation process on the 2021/22 draft budget were related to affordability of the charges and service delivery concerns, especially on water, sanitation and electricity. Haskin said the City spent millions of rands on lawyers for debt collectors to " harass and intimidate "ratepayers for what they could not afford and ultimately write off the debt while claiming that it was to alleviate economic hardship. "About R37 million is allocated to 13 law firms for the collection of debt owed to the City. The way to alleviate economic hardships is to make the charges more affordable to make money available," said Haskin. The City's budget for the current financial year was a total of R56,6 billion. Water and sanitation rates will increase by 5% , refuse removal by 3.5 % and the electricity tariff will be increased by 13,48 %. Freedom Front Plus Councillor Erika Botha -Rossouw, also rejected the new tariffs and called for the scrapping of the pipe or fixed base charge for water and sanitation. She said as a result of the looming Day Zero, when the taps were anticipated to run dry, and associated water restrictions, water consumption dropped but there was no reduction in water tariffs. She also called for a revision of property rates. "We all know that Cape Town property values are over inflated. Rates should be calculated on a household income and not property values. The middle class cannot afford excessive over inflated rates. They are selling their houses and moving to rural towns in the province," Botha-Rossouw said. The ANC also rejected the new tariffs and described the budget as nothing more than an "electioneering budget". In their comments ratepayers described the increases as “unacceptable and absurd”. The two departments who received the most huge budget allocations were  Water and Waste, and Energy and Climate Change. Mayor Dan Plato said the two departments took just over half of the  total operational budget. An amount of R4,6 billion was allocated towards the Safety and Security Directorate and R4,2 billion towards Community Services and Health. Haskin also questioned the failure to support some of the city’s iconic events that had made significant contributions to Cape Town's international status and the economy. These included Africa Travel Week, Baxter Theatre, Artscape, Cape Malay Choir, Cape Town Opera and Philharmonic Orchestra , Two Oceans marathon and the Toy Run. "Why is the City not committing to a multi-year funding", he asked  and questioned the "dumping" of about R50 million to "unnamed, unallocated events" yet no detail was given. Regarding financial assistance given to hunger alleviating projects he questioned the discontinued support to Ikamva Labantu and Peninsula Feeding Scheme Haskin said despite a request to ward councillors not to host events as these were regarded as super-spreader events during Covid-19 pandemic, many ward councillors ignored such a request. "Well over R1 million was allocated to multiple public functions, and also  allocation to precinct ambassadors", Haskin said. “These allocations are no more than jobs for DA party pals,” Haskin accused. The City also took a lashing for the public participation process which some councillors described as "undemocratic" and "elitist" as many poor residents were not included. Haskin also lambasted the City for the "low levels" of public participation process as well as the 60 day public comment period for the seventh year in a row afforded residents, adding that the City had never implemented a promise it made a few years ago to relook the matter. "The only reasonable explanation for the DA 's conduct is that it would rather let the residents remain in the dark and residents have a low level of understanding of the budgeting process and the budgeting allocations," Haskin. Activist group STOP COCT questioned the quality and analysis of the comments received during the public participation process. The group’s spokesperson Sandra Dickson said not only were the comments randomly selected but some, particularly from the activist group, were excluded from the COCT published list. "If the COCT wants to maintain its claim of trust and transparency, then we challenge them to make the database of input data available. This should include emails from the public, website, phone calls and input received at the Ward meetings," said Dickson. 