The exact logistics for the next phase of the Covid-19 vaccine rollout remain sketchy as some healthcare workers are concerned about the uncertainty on the way forward. Yolanda Mutiba is a health committee member in Hanover Park and has been helping to inform, educate and register the elderly to receive the vaccine. She has been doing the rounds in the area and said that she’s been handing out pamphlets to the elderly, but many were not interested in getting the vaccine. Mutiba said: “We have a couple of elderly facilities in Hanover Park, and most of the people have said that they don’t want the vaccine, I’m struggling to get people She said on Monday, meetings would continue to take place to work out exactly how the vaccination programme will unfold. “In the meeting on Monday, we will get more information. We heard that the elderly in Hanover Park will have to go to Mitchells Plain (District Hospital) for the vaccine and that would be a bit of a problem.” Mutiba said many of the elderly at the three care homes in Hanover Park were frail and they would need to figure out how to transport them to vaccination sites. “This week, we are still doing information workshops at the homes to explain to people why they should sign-up and get the vaccine. Nothing has been confirmed for how the injections will be given yet,” said Mutiba. On Friday, Premier Alan Winde wrapped up a week of daily registration drives, targeting the elderly – where he went out to encourage pensioners to sign-up for the Covid-19 vaccine. While at Watergate Mall in Mitchells Plain, Winde spoke to shoppers at a local retail store and said: “I spoke with Mable from Phillip East who said, “I am glad I have more information about the vaccines. I’m looking forward to having my vaccine and I will be registering.” Winde added: “I also had the opportunity to engage with Monica from Delft and helped her to register. Monica said, “When I first heard about the vaccine, I was very skeptical. I spoke to my daughter about it, and she encouraged me to go get registered for my vaccine. I am very glad that I am now registered, and I don’t have to worry about it anymore.” The information drives have been but one aspect of spreading the message about the vaccine, whether it was successful or not remains to be seen amidst the confusion as to if, when and how the over 60’s will get their Covid-19 vaccine injections this week. 