Google has set up plans to boost cybersecurity  and combat phishing attacks ahead of the local government elections. This emerged on Tuesday during a parliamentary communications portfolio committee virtual round table discussion attended by the search engine giant and information and communications consultancy company Pygma Consulting. The discussion focused on the impact of digital media in misinformation and content moderation. The purpose was to take into account the impact that online platforms have on free and fair elections. Yolanda Mlonzi, government affairs and public policy analyst for Google SA, said   Google has invested over $1 billion (R13.9 billion) annually into content moderation. “This demonstrates the commitment we have as Google when it comes to showing that we don’t spread misinformation,” she said. She added: “We have over 20 000 team members taking down content, escalating content, ensuring it is moderated and trusted and safe.” Mlonzi said Google wants to be more intentional about how they approach the country’s next elections. “We have a targeted campaign when it comes to helping voters. The second element is around equipping campaigns - looking at how the media and political parties use online platforms to campaign or report accurately. The third element is to tackle threats - this includes cybersecurity, phishing attacks etc.” Mlonzi said  leading up to the local government elections, Google SA would continue to partner with election systems and the government. Thabisa Faye, managing director for Pygma Consulting, said “Social media has greatly influenced how information is sought, used and disseminated. In a civil society, it has helped build integrity, raise awareness and increase accountability, especially in democratic societies,” she said. She said  the fast and widespread dissemination of information comes with consequences, including in political environments. Faye added: “Social media can intensify political influence while lowering the cost of disseminating (information).” Chairperson of the portfolio committee, Boyce Maneli highlighted the significance of this meeting taking place on Africa Day. He said: “This day represents an opportunity for Africans to reflect on progress made in the continent since then. We have the responsibility to play an important role in global politics, using whatever resources that are in Africa, for the betterment of humanity”. Related Video: