THE case against ANC member of provincial legislature Danville Smith and his co-accused, who face corruption charges for allegedly pocketing R25000 for a bogus food parcel invoice for a Mandela Day event, has been postponed. Smith and his co-accused Peter Blackbenberg appeared in the Bellville Commercial Crimes Court yesterday where their matter was postponed to June 2, on the request of the defence for consultation. Smith, a former councillor for the Cederberg Municipality, together with Blackenberg who was district Committee member for Ward 5 in Lambert’s Bay and an employee at the Clanwilliam Municipality, face charges relating to alleged corruption that occurred during the planning of Mandela Day celebrations for July, 18, 2016 in Lambert’s Bay. The pair are accused of pocketing R25000 after submitting an invoice from a company worth R28200 and getting one of the owners of the company to keep R3200 for his troubles, despite the company not rendering a service. Last week, Smith stepped aside as MPL and regional leader while the case against him continues. This is in line with the ANC’s national executive committee (NEC) resolution for party leaders implicated in serious legal matters to step aside until cases are resolved. Blankenberg also faces charges of not disclosing that one of the companies that was paid nearly R30 000 for sound and entertainment had his brother as a director. According to the charge sheet, Blankenberg approached a company to submit an invoice for food parcels which was submitted two days after the event and the amount paid a day later, despite there not being any food parcels provided. “After Mr Hector submitted the quotation, he was contacted by accused two (Blankenberg) who informed him that his quotation was successful. Accused two informed Mr Hector that they decided to use local persons to supply the food parcels and that Mr Hector must send him an invoice on July 20, for the food parcels even though Multi-West Coast Services did not supply the food parcels. Accused two informed Mr Hector that he must hand over the R28200 to accused one (Smith). “Accused two contacted Mr Hector on July 23 and informed him that accused one will meet him in Piketberg and he must hand over the R28 200. Accused two and Mr Hector agreed that Mr Hector can keep R3 200 for administrative costs.” Both accused face charges of corruption and contravening section 173 of the Municipal Finance Management Act while accused two faces an additional charge of fraud. Weekend Argus