Multidisciplinary artist Thania Petersen wants to use her residency at the Zeitz Museum of Contemporary Art Africa (MOCAA) to create work that will provoke conversations that interrogate Cape Malay stereotypes. The artist’s open studio investigation, titled Kassaram, is named after the short film she released this week. Petersen said the project was based on how people of Cape Town have been represented by others. “Cultural identities have been created and imposed on people through the arts, and a lot of the media in existence is a disservice to who we are as people of the Cape,” she said. “I want to create visual stories through my work that challenge the stereotypes of creolised people. I want my work to evoke discussions that will cause us to interrogate our prejudices. My body of work in this residency deals with that.” The artist said she was passionate about the “creolised” (mixed decent) communities of the Western Cape. “Kassaram speaks to the concept of creolisation and the space for creolised people of this world. I want to readdress our culture and set the record straight about who we are.” The artist recently collaborated with two taxi owners, using the vehicle as a canvas for stills from the short film. Inside the taxi is a screen and speaker that allow commuters to enjoy the film as they travel. Petersen said although only one taxi shared her work in this manner, she had plans to transform more taxis into vehicles of art because she enjoyed the experience. Petersen is the third artist who will be occupying the atelier space at the museum, taking over from fellow artists Haroon Gunn-Salie and Kemang Wa Lehulere. “Each of us works in such a different way. The public needs to see that artists are multifaceted and work in all types of media. My space will allow people to see that artists are not only painters but people who use various mediums to express themselves,” she said “During lockdown level 5 we were forced to work from home and to have this much space now will open my mind. My studio is an extension of who I am as a person and I can’t wait to open up and share who I am with the world.” Tandazani Dhlakama, Zeitz MOCAA assistant curator, said the atelier was a space for experimentation and one where artists were encouraged to demystify the process of creating art. “This is a space where the artists require vulnerability and bravery because you have moved your studio into a museum, which is a very public space.” “The space is called Kassaram, which means upside down, a big mess, and this space allows for a big mess. Thania makes important work highlighting narratives that are usually understated and she can drive thought-provoking conversations through her art.” Dhlakama said the Zeitz team appreciated Petersen’s work. “From photography and performance to tapestry and film, Thania is a prolific artist who works in multiple mediums while creating important work that reflects history and memory in interesting ways,” she said. Senior curator at the museum, Storm Janse van Rensburg, said he was delighted to have Thania in the atelier space. “She has such amazing energy and comes with so much enthusiasm. We love that she surprises us and that there’s always an element of vibrant engagement in her work.” Petersen’s residency will run until the end of October. Her art film Kassaram and the open studio will be available to visitors at the atelier on the second level of the Zeitz Mocaa. 