Cape Town - Local experts and Premier of the Western Cape Alan Winde are keeping a close eye on the emergence of new coronavirus variants and how fast they can spread. Western Cape Department of Health head Dr Keith Cloete said that scientists were monitoring the presence of new variants during a Covid-19 resurgence in the Cape but did not confirm the arrival of a third wave. Last week, health authorities confirmed there were two cases in Gauteng and two in KwaZulu-Natal who had tested positive for B.1.617.2, the Covid-19 variant found in India. Cloete said: “The scientists are monitoring the presence of variants, and how fast these spread within our context. There is no scientific proof to suggest that the variant identified in India will spread fast within the South African context. “The third wave preparations are not materially affected, as it is predicted that the predominant strain in in South Africa will remain B.1.351 which was first detected in November 2020.” Winde said they would remain vigilant on increases in cases and relied on experts to keep them guided. He said they wanted to reassure the public that the variant detected in India had no cases in the Cape. “In the Western Cape, there have been no cases of the B.1.617.2 (first detected in India), however, there were 11 cases of B.1.1.7 (first detected in the UK),” said Winde. “Of the 11 cases detected, eight were detected in the Western Cape (with two having a history of travel from Bahrain), according to the national Department of Health. “The Western Cape government is guided by scientific expertise. We are fortunate to have many bright minds in the province, and South Africa more generally. “They inform me that the dominant variant in the province continues to be B.1.351, which was first detected in South Africa, and announced last year ahead of the second wave. “The Western Cape government remains vigilant, especially after recent increases in other provinces. Our surveillance teams, as they have done throughout this period, continue to monitor for clusters and to intervene to ensure we break the chain of transmission. “We urge residents to help minimise the spread of the virus by continuing to wear masks, avoid crowded and confined spaces and to keep social distance.” This week, during a television interview, Professor Tulio de Oliveira said international travel would contribute to the possible introduction of other variants and that universities around the country, including UCT and the University of Stellenbosch, were monitoring and surveying the changes of infections. De Oliveira is the director of Krisp, KwaZulu-Natal Research Innovation and Sequencing Platform, and has 20 years experience in outbreaks. Weekend Argus