No fancy curtained-stage, just red plastic chairs and an enthusiastic audience who tapped along and nodded their heads to show appreciation of the opera music. This was the scene at the fire station in Roeland Street, central Cape Town, on Friday when the Cape Town Opera Chorus filled the hall with opera music in honour of the firefighters’ service. Breaking with conventions of singing to its usual audiences in a theatre, the Cape Town Opera (CTO)  performed in the fire station as a way to show appreciation to the firefighters who battled a devastating blaze that ripped through the Table Mountain National Park and  destroyed buildings at UCT last month. The fire was brought under control after three days while some firefighters sustained injuries. CTO Vice-Chairperson Africa Melane said: “We just want to thank you for risking your lives and in some cases paying the price. I remember looking through the window when the fire started as I was preparing to leave for work. Some of us had never come that close to it, but you did. It was harrowing." The day belonged to the firefighters and they were treated to performances of diverse repertoire - from love songs to family-oriented pieces and music that celebrated their "heroic service". The Covid-19 pandemic forced organisations and businesses to be innovative and the opera company decided to seek new ways of interacting with residents. "This is what the Opera members want now - to go out to communities and perform there - taking music right to them to enjoy," added Melane. Spokesperson for the City's Fire and Rescue Services Jermaine Carelse, briefly described the situation on the day the fire broke out. "When firefighters are called out, they jump without hesitation. They regard their work as a responsibility and a service to communities," Carelse said, adding that Mahatma Gandhi's quote best summed up their work: "the best way to find yourself is to lose yourself in service". And to show their appreciation, the firefighters joined the Chorus members in an impromptu performance. "Let's have a jol. Let's make music", encouraged Melane as some of the firefighters belted their lungs out. The Opera, which provides training and performance opportunities to singers, celebrated 21 years in 2020  but, said Melane, but could not hold celebrations due to Covid-19. The Chorus also performed for front-line workers at Tygerberg Hospital, Witzenberg municipality firefighters as well as Goodwood firefighters. "We have a programme of events planned for this year and we will share the details with the communities as they unfold," he said. 