Cape Town -The Animation School has sketched its way into the South African Film and Television Awards (Saftas), frame by frame. Four of its films were nominated in the “Best Student Film” category at today’s ceremony. The nominated animation films are all structured around everyday life and the adventures which it can hold. They speak about the stark realities of life; our acceptance within society as well as life beyond technology. The nominated films from the school are Flower in the Subway, Binding Adventures, Fowl Goblin, and The Boy and The Robin. In a statement, director of Flower in The Subway Christine le Clazio said: “The team and I wanted to challenge ourselves and tackle hard themes such as classism, materialism, self-identity, social constraints, and fitting in, with love being our main theme. This is because we believe that love and acceptance transcend all these boundaries. “We wanted to create an open space for our audience to take away different lessons from our film that stood out for them. We are all so wonderfully different, and our film is a message that you are worthy of love and acceptance just as you are.” Principal at The Animation School, Nuno Martins, said they were honoured to be in a position to win another Safta Golden Horn. “I guess it’s an internal race for us which is difficult for lecturers and staff because we feel all the nominated films are deserving of the Golden Horn. So, we will compete collectively and share in the success as we do at The Animation School every day of the week. They are all winners in our eyes,” he said. The Animation School has won three Safta awards in the past, including Best Animated Short for Burgeon and Best Student Film for Jabu in 2016; two years later, Best Student Film for Hewn. Since 2012, the school has had a total of 11 nominations, including the four of this year. “This is huge for us at The Animation School. Saftas is without a doubt the most prestigious award ceremony in South Africa, recognising both professionals and students for their contributions to the local entertainment industry. We work tirelessly every year to produce work that is up to Safta jury standards. Winning another Safta would be a great achievement for both students, lecturers and institution,” Martins said. “The success behind any learning institution are the lecturers, they are the heart of the institution and we are very fortunate to be working with some outstanding lecturers which are committed and inspire the students to deliver the best possible work. Also, all our lecturers have industry experience which contributes to their delivery in the classroom and better prepares the students’ expectations of what to envision when they enter the animation industry. “We hope to gain more recognition from the South African animation industry and parents that believe that animation or entertainment isn’t a viable career option for their artistic children. Winning another Golden Horn will be testament that The Animation School’s tremendous efforts are being recognised and will inspire existing students to work hard to achieve the same goals in years to come. We love winning, who doesn’t,” he said. Martins has been at The Animation School since it opened its doors in 2000. “I always steered The Animation School with my heart and made certain that students could trust us with providing them the skills they require to be employable and most importantly, be production-ready for this very competitive industry. I can confidently say that the industry are proud supporters of what we do today and tell us that our graduates are productive from day one of employment which for me personally makes my heart very happy,” he added. Weekend Argus