The number of South Africans defaulting on their rent in comparison to this time last year has increased, a sign that many are struggling financially during the Covid-19 pandemic. Statistics South Africa this week released its Civil Cases for Debt report which looked at the number of cases of people being taken to court for outstanding rental debt. Last year March, 2 443 civil cases were recorded and summonses issued for rental debt, this increased to 3 060 cases in March this year. A month-on-month increase in defaulters has been noted as in February 2 904 rental civil cases and summonses were recorded. However, figures showed that more and more people choose to buy property  as opposed to rent, partially due to the low interest rates. Property expert and head of the Realtor of Excellence group Toni Enderli said right now it’s the best thing to do. “If someone was paying R7 000 for rent a month, a year ago they probably would not have qualified to get into the property market. “Because the interest rate has come down from 10.5% to 7% in 12 months the person renting at R7 000 can get the same property with 100% finance from the bank, especially in new developments.” Enderli said the rental market was feeling the pinch right now. “We’ve seen an increase in people no longer renting but buying their own property, something that they were paying rent on for R7 000 they are now paying a R5 500 on a hundred percent bond. “They’re paying R1 500 less on their own property. “This has put pressure on the rental market because now, there are more rentals on the market. “An investor who was renting out his property would normally increase the rental by about eight percent a year, now we are recommending to our clients to rather keep the rental at the same price or just a one or two percent increase or your could lose your tenant.” Rental defaulters are on the increase but for the first time it now makes better financial sense to buy before you default on your rent. “The interest rate is now the lowest that is has been in 50 years at around 7%, what we have found is that a lot of people can now afford to own their own property,” said Enderli. Another reflection of this trend is the value of properties being registered at the deeds office. “If you take the last 12 months, 80% of the properties that was registered in the deeds office was under R1.5 million. “That tells us that the market is really doing well and  the people who have been renting are coming into the market and people from disadvantaged communities,” Enderli said. 