Cape Town - DA councillor Nora Grose, who was mayor Dan Plato’s campaign manager, faces fraud and money laundering charges after Covid-19 relief funds were stolen. Grose handed herself over to the Hawks Serious Corruption Investigation team at the Atlantis SAPS Community Centre prior to her court appearance today. Hawks spokesperson Zinzi Hani says the funds were not used for their intended purpose. “Nora Grose (64), a ward councillor from Table View has made a brief appearance today in the Atlantis Magistrate's Court on charges of fraud and money laundering. “She allegedly facilitated the Temporary Employee Relief Scheme (TERS) funding along with chairperson of a non-governmental organization (NGO) called  the South African Religious Civic Organisation (SARCO). Those funds were allegedly used for personal gain.” It is further alleged she colluded with Reuben Swartz, the chairperson of the NGO to siphon relief funds from the City of Cape Town. “The humanitarian funds valued at R170 000 meant for the distribution of food parcels in Atlantis were reportedly funnelled to a church in Table View with links to some city officials,” said Hani. Swartz was arrested in December 2020 for similar charges, and released on R10 000 bail. She is expected to appearin the Specialised Commercial Crimes Court tomorrow. Grose was released on R10 000 bail and is expected to appear in the Atlantis Magistrates Court on June 21. The church where the funds were allegedly deposited is the same church where Plato launched his mayoral campaign last October. Party insiders claim the money was used to fund Plato’s campaign for the 2020 regional congress. Questions sent to Plato about the allegations were not directly responded to – instead, the municipality issued a statement. “The City’s legal services department have been working with authorities for some time,” read the statement from Plato. “They advise me that, based on the information available to the City, this is not a criminal matter and that records show the funds went towards the intended purpose of food relief. All allegations regarding malpractice by a city councillor were investigated by the City of Cape Town’s Office of the Speaker and no malpractice was found. I have no doubt the authorities will continue to receive the full co-operation of our officials. “We remain fully committed to ensuring all financial transactions are carried out to the letter of the law, and this is confirmed annually by the auditor general. I’ve further been advised by City officials that additional mechanisms will be put in place to ensure grant recipient organisations are fully aware of the manner in which funds may be used.” Said Brett Herron: “The GOOD Party welcomes the arrest of a City of Cape Town councillor allegedly involved in a scheme to launder Covid humanitarian funds through a Table View church for DA party purposes. It is unclear whether these funds were to be used as part of an internal DA campaign or for DA party purposes. GOOD wrote to the mayor. Given that these are public funds meant to mitigate citizens’ social and humanitarian distress, there are duties of transparency and good governance on your administration.” EFF Cape Metro leader Mbulelo Dwane said this came as no surprise to them “but a revelation of the true reality that finds expression in the DA government both at the local and provincial level. It is rather shocking that at times of need, when the country was on its knees during the hard lockdown, the DA saw it fit to use funds that were meant for the poor to advance their political agenda. It is quite very clear that the Democratic Alliance does not have value for human life and human security". He said the reality was the councillor was one of many corrupt public representatives in the DA-led City of Cape Town and Western Cape. “We have no doubt that there are many in the DA that will be exposed to corruption, it is a matter of time before everyone understands that crime has colour. With such trends going on unabated the saddest part is that it is the poor that suffers the most. Criminals do not only wear balaclava but sit in city councils while preaching good governance they have no knowledge or relation to.” He added they also noted the mayor defending Grose following her being charged. “This is but another concession and confession that proves DA does not just undervalue human lives but also disregard the laws of this country as long as their own are exposed of fraudulent acts. This is nothing but a playful act as the accused is a ward councillor representing the DA. Criminality should never be reserved for black people but apply equally to all those that break the law.” Weekend Argus