CAPE TOWN - Alleged underworld boss Nafiz Modack and an AGU member’s case will be heard at the same courthouse as the list of other cases he is already facing are being consolidated. The Directorate of Public Prosecutions has yet to reveal the full number of charges that Modack is facing. Modack and his co-accused, Ashley Tabisher, made their second appearance at the Bishop Lavis Magistrates’ Court this morning. They were greeted by a heavy police presence. Together they are facing charges of corruption. Modack’s supporters who call themselves the “Modack group” were back at court this morning, armed with posters. The State is set to prove that Modack allegedly ran an enterprise and apparently enlisted the help of Tabisher, for a payment of R10 000, to inform him when his home in Plattekloof was to be raided. The matter was postponed to Friday, May 14, at the Blue Downs Regional Court where they are expected to join Jacques Cronje, Ricardo Morgan and Zane Kilian. Each is facing a list of separate charges. Modack faces five counts of conspiracy to commit murder, attempted murder, and to have conspired to acquire an explosive and conspired to have explosives in their possession or under their control. The State alleges that the attack was orchestrated with the assistance of members from the JFK, Junky Funky Gang, and to obtain explosive devices between September and November 2019 with the purpose of conspiring to murder the Anti-Gang Unit commander, Lieutenant-Colonel Charl Kinnear, who had been investigating the underworld trade. Kinnear was assassinated outside his home in Bishop Lavis last year. Police have yet to arrest and charge the mastermind behind this. Amaal Jantjies is expected to be back in the Parow Regional Court tomorrow where she is facing charges of conspiracy to commit murder. The State is set to prove that she orchestrated and acquired ammunition such as a hand grenade and “hitmen” with the purpose of killing Kinnear and his family in 2019. Modack, Jantjies and her co-accused Janick Adonis are therefore facing charges of attempted murder for Kinnear, his wife Nicolette, sons Carlisle and Casleigh Kinnear as well as that of two police officers at the residence in Bishop Lavis in November 2019. Modack, Jacques Cronje and Ricardo Morgan were arrested on April 29 during a high-speed chase at Century View, Century City. They were joined by Kilian on May 7 at the Cape Town Magistrate’s Court where they are facing a list of charges relating to intimidation, kidnapping, extortion, money laundering and contravention of electronic communication. Modack is also charged with the attempted murder of Advocate William Booth in April 2020, while Morgan faces a count of money laundering. During the high-speed chase, Modack is alleged to have tried to evade police. He has also been charged with reckless driving, attempted murder and resisting arrest after apparently attempting to run over a police officer. This matter was also postponed to Friday, May 14, for a bail application and the consolidation of charges. Weekend Argus 