Remnants of China's largest rocket are expected to plunge back through the atmosphere in the early hours of Sunday, European and U.S. tracking centres said on Saturday. China's foreign ministry said on Friday that most debris from the rocket would burn on re-entry and is highly unlikely to cause any harm, after the U.S. military said that what it called an uncontrolled re-entry was being tracked by U.S. Space Command. Space junk has landed in the Western Cape previously. In 2000, a metal ball fell from the sky on a farm close to Worcester. A second metal ball dropped out of the sky the following day on a farm approximately 50 kilometres outside of Cape Town. At the time astronomers said the balls, which were white-hot when they landed, could be parts of a decaying satellite. The  rocket was launched at the Wenchang Space Center in China and was sent on a mission to carry a module containing living quarters for a future Chinese space station. Astrophysicist Jonathan McDowell from the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics said: “The risk of an individual being hit is one in many billions.” This is not the first time that China has had a rocket fall back to Earth. A similar crashed occurred in West Africa and the Atlantic Ocean in May last year. McDowell told Space.com, “These 10-meter long metal rods slammed into the roofs of people's houses. So the fact that happened, (the) first time out, tells you that the risk of property damage — at least — is not tiny”. The core stage of a rocket is also known as the backbone of the rocket, with its primary focus being to support the weight of the payload, upper stage, crew vehicle, four engines and two rocket boosters. “The core stage's orbit places it over populated areas ranging from the United States to Chile to Australia. It is most likely that the pieces will plop in the ocean, which covers about 70% of Earth,” McDowell added. Spokesperson for the Chinese foreign ministry, Wang Wenbin, said that the country was tracking the fall and that the risk to inhabited areas is extremely low. He added that most of the debris from the rocket will be burned upon re-entry and that it is unlikely to cause any harm, according to Reuters. McDowell said: “All these entities are mostly in agreement with their predictions about re-entry, with minor variations." McDowell has been updating his followers on Twitter with more details and tracking information on what’s to come. The information that he’s sharing narrows in on re-entry predictions from the US space command. 