Artist David Oliver is presenting a collection of framed collages and 3D sculptures inspired by newspapers in his new exhibition, Thorough Cut. For this body of work, Oliver chose to reference the lifestyle section of the Cape Argus and completely disassemble it. “The collages that I’ve created are a sort of blueprint of the newspaper, it’s what’s left when you remove all the text, advertising and photographs,” he said. “What we see in the news often dictates the taste and interest of the people in that setting. It was interesting for me to witness the relationship that forms in society because of their news.” Using the newspaper blueprint as the primary backdrop for the collage, Oliver then added layers of paper which spread throughout the frame. Oliver said that through this exhibit, he wanted to show how news is distilled and condensed in a newspaper but could continue to “bleed” into new spaces. “The news is so edited and censored. There’s this conscious idea that you cannot publish everything, but I believe that there is something to be shared despite this. That’s why I let the collage spread out of the frame of the paper,” he said. “Regardless of where we receive news from, the structure of it has been prioritised and remained the same. In removing all of the facets of a paper, aside from the structure, what are you left with?” The Australian-born artist titled the exhibition Thorough Cut after the fixations people have in life of what things should look like. Along with this, Oliver created 3D polystone (a resin stone mixture) sculptures to accompany the collages. The sculptures mirror the form and beauty of the newspaper’s design and vary in height. He explained that the correlation between the sculptures and the collages is that the newspaper is “the sieve through which we view the city”. “I love the idea that things are compound and that nothing exists on its own. Nothing happens in isolation. Even when news is published, it can’t exist on its own. It will always permeate into some feeling, reaction or adaptation. The idea is that it resembles change,” he said. Oliver came to South Africa just before lockdown and started searching for a fresh perspective in the hopes of becoming inspired to create something new. He decided that the best way to understand how people live was to purchase and read a local newspaper. “There’s something so distinctly charming about the printed matter that can show you what society consists of. In reading the Cape Argus daily, I was able to distil what people like and gain a comprehensive understanding of the world I was now living in,” he said. The 54-year-old  said that he deleted all of his social media because he wanted to produce work from a more artistic perspective. Because of this, his only form of media consumption was the newspaper. He added: “A local newspaper is specific because it allows you to gain so much knowledge about an area while immersing yourself in it.” Oliver, who spent the last 30 years doing a combination of fine art and photography says that remaining curious is what led him to create this exhibition. "I might never have picked up the newspaper if I was not curious." The collection has already been sold and will be on display at 196 Victoria Road, Woodstock until Saturday, June 19.  