Cape Town - Motorists in parts of the Western Cape affected by heavy rains have been warned to stay off dangerous roadways as clean-up operations continue after deadly floods. Yesterday officials along with Disaster Management crews began mop-up operations in different parts of the Southern Cape where heavy rains wreaked havoc in several municipalities and their surrounding areas. Four people died and hundreds of others had to be rescued from their homes and taken elsewhere as homes were flooded after heavy rains began on Wednesday. Philiswa Somtsora from the Plankiesdorp informal settlement in the Riversdale area said she and her family are still living in their flooded shack. “It has been a bad few days for me and my family as our shack has been flooded since the rains started in our area on Thursday,” she said. “All six of us share a one-room shack that is flooded, all our blankets are wet, the municipality has given us some supplies but the bags to cover the holes where the water comes in isn’t enough to cover the whole shack so if the rain changes direction, water comes in from other parts. It’s still raining right now and we are still living in this flooded shack.” Nolan Jacobs, 25, said large pieces of hail that rained down in their Bitouville community near Gouritsmond shattered windows and destroyed roofs and cars during the week. “People are trying to come to terms with what happened because even with the weather reports nobody expected it to get as bad as it did,” he said. “The old houses in Bitouville were the hardest hit because of the old asbestos roofing and that caused havoc. The rescue teams only managed to come out on Thursday to remove the elderly people who were trapped in their homes and were unable to get out by themselves, so that Wednesday and well into the night people were praying to whatever God they believed in.” Spokesperson for Department of Local Government, James-Brent Styan, said storms in the Western Cape have largely subsided with weather warnings downgraded. “There are still some predictions of rainfall expected in a few areas but nothing major at the moment,” he said. “The major focus is the humanitarian relief in the Overberg region particularly in the communities of Struisbaai, Agulhas, Theewaterskloof and Riviersonderend, those were areas that were particularly hard hit. If you look at Struisbaai they received 174mm of rain over the past four days, Hermanus received 62mm, Cape Agulhas 142mm. There are still some rescue efforts continuing, one civilian was pulled from a car early (Saturday) morning in the Arniston area. “We want to remind people that roadways remain very dangerous as roads and bridges have been damaged and people need to try to avoid travelling around the province in their affected areas as much as possible just for a few days while the clean-up efforts continue. We have had reports of rockfalls in places as far as Outeniqua Pass, nothing significant but the roadways are dangerous and people need to exercise extreme caution.” Spokesperson for the Cape Agulhas Municipality Gurswin Prins said mop-up operations as well as damage assessments to houses and infrastructure continue. “We are still assisting the families who are housed temporarily in our halls and caravan parks as well as those who remained in their houses with mattresses, food and blankets. People in other areas that were affected are also receiving similar help,” he said. “We received many donations for which we are thankful but we still have a lot of people who have lost everything and who are in need of food, blankets and mattresses. The Swellendam, Arniston and Struisbaai roads are still flooded,” added Prins. Weekend Argus